This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Kelly Clarkson reunited with her "American Idol" judges while receiving her star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Kelly Clarkson has postponed additional shows from her Las Vegas residency.
"Unfortunately, I need to postpone the remainder of the August Studio Session dates in Las Vegas," the "Since U been Gone" singer wrote on Instagram. "While I normally keep my personal life private, this past year, my children’s father [ex-husband Brandon Blackstock] has been ill and at this moment, I need to be fully present for them."
KELLY CLARKSON POSTPONES LAS VEGAS RESIDENCY HOURS BEFORE OPENING NIGHT
Kelly Clarkson and ex-husband Brandon Blackstock reached a divorce settlement in 2021. (Jeff Kravitz/FilmMagic)
APP USERS CLICK HERE TO VIEW POST
A post shared by Kelly Clarkson (@kellyclarkson)
"I am sincerely sorry to everyone who bought tickets to the shows and I so appreciate your grace, kindness and understanding," she concluded.
Representatives for Clarkson did not immediately respond to Fox News Digital's request for comment.
This story is developing.
Christina Dugan Ramirez is an entertainment writer for Fox News Digital.
Get a daily look at the top news in music, movies, television and more in the entertainment industry.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.