We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free.
So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners.
There are many new Radisson Rewards hotels worth checking out across the globe.
Many or all of the products on this page are from partners who compensate us when you click to or take an action on their website, but this does not influence our evaluations or ratings. Our opinions are our own.
Contributing Writer
Ramsey is a freelance travel journalist covering business travel, loyalty programs and luxury travel. His work has appeared in Travel+Leisure, Condé Nast Traveler, Reader's Digest, AFAR, BBC Worldwide, USA Today, Frommers.com, Fodors.com, Business Traveler, Fortune, Airways, TravelAge West, MSN.com, Bustle.com and AAA magazines. As someone who flies more than 450,000 miles per year and has been to 173 countries, he is well-versed in the intricacies of credit cards and how to maximize the associated perks and services.
There are some excellent Radisson properties located outside of the U.S. that make great accommodations for trips abroad. Travelers will find several different types of properties, from design-focused brands like Radisson Red to full-service brands like Radisson Blu and its upscale Radisson Collection.
Radisson is also expanding quickly, adding hotels in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, in particular. By 2030, the loyalty program plans to have at least 55 hotels from its portfolio within Morocco and South Africa alone.
Keep in mind that these international Radisson properties are part of the Radisson Rewards program, which is separate from the Choice Privileges program. Choice Privileges is the loyalty program of the Radisson properties in the Americas. To redeem points for award stays at Radissons in Europe, Asia and Africa, you'll need to collect Radisson Rewards points.
Here are some of the newest Radisson hotel openings outside the Americas that are worth checking out.
(Photo courtesy of Radisson Blu Mosi-Oa-Tunya, Livingstone Resort)
On the Zambian side of world-famous Victoria Falls, this hotel is a great home base for exploring this UNESCO World Heritage wonder and taking advantage of the region’s famous safari trips. The hotel also has a river-view swimming pool, river boat and kids club.
(Photo courtesy of Radisson RED Phuket Patong Beach)
In the tourist center of Patong, this resort is about 650 feet from the beach and features live music, a vibrant swimming pool and rooftop parties. The hotel is also popular with people that like co-working and taking advantage of a new way of mixing work and leisure. From a swim-up pool bar to co-working spaces and private pods, this is a great place to stay when you have work to do in paradise.
(Photo courtesy of Parallel Hotel Udaipur)
In the land of famous Indian palaces along the lakes, Udaipur is a popular destination for tourists. This Radisson brand taps into that interest with modern amenities, including rooftop dining and even an onsite Starbucks for those that don’t want to give up their at-home caffeine routine.
(Photo courtesy of Radisson Collection Hotel, Waterfront Cape Town)
Once the Radisson Blu, this hotel has added a new restaurant before transitioning to the Radisson Collection brand in late 2024 and plans to renovate its second dining room. Its infinity pool overlooks the Atlantic Ocean, which is the same view available from many guest room balconies.
(Photo courtesy of Cour des Loges Lyon)
Perhaps one of Lyon’s most famous hotels, this hotel in the heart of its walkable UNESCO-recognized old town now belongs to the Radisson Collection group. The Renaissance buildings, some dating back to the 14th century, have an open courtyard where guests can dine.
(Photo courtesy of Radisson Collection Hotel, Basilica Budapest)
Waking up here to views of the city’s famous St. Stephen’s Basilica is a treat, which is also visible from the rooftop bar, which has a menu serving Japanese and Peruvian flavors. From this address, it is easy to walk around the downtown area or visit the nearby Castle district and shopping street.
(Photo courtesy of art’otel London Hoxton)
As its name suggests, compelling art weaves its way through the interior design. The new London Hoxton property features work from designer D*Face as well as access to an art gallery with displays that change monthly.
There is also a calendar of events that takes place at the hotel, including a resident artist that helps curate some of the interiors.
(Photo courtesy of Radisson Blu Hotel, Shanghai Stadium)
This Radisson property has a unique location with many of the rooms looking directly into Shanghai Stadium, making it a popular choice with sports fans.
If you’re not playing on the field, there is a full gym and indoor pool for guests to get their own work out. This is not the most central hotel in the city, but it is convenient to Shanghai’s bustling Xujiahui district where things like Longhua Temple or iconic Wukang Road are not so far.
(Photo courtesy of Radisson RED Danang)
Fronting the beach, this towering hotel has beautiful views of the water and is close to many of Danang’s shopping and dining options. There is also an outdoor pool, Southeast Asian-inspired menu at the restaurant and rooftop bar with DJ. This hotel is great for business travelers as well as those looking for a holiday getaway.
(Photo courtesy of Radisson Blu Hotel, Conakry)
It’s not often that NerdWallet highlights a points hotel in West Africa, and this new opening brings a vibrant, resort-like choice to the country’s capital. The hotel has an infinity pool and bar, spa and beachfront views of the Atlantic Ocean. If you’re planning to host a meeting or event, the hotel is home to the largest conference center in town.
You want a travel credit card that prioritizes what’s important to you. Here are some of the best travel credit cards of 2025:
Flexibility, point transfers and a large bonus: Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card
No annual fee: Wells Fargo Autograph® Card
Flat-rate travel rewards: Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card
Bonus travel rewards and high-end perks: Chase Sapphire Reserve®
Luxury perks: The Platinum Card® from American Express
Business travelers: Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card
on Chase's website
1x-26xEarn up to 26 total points per $1 spent when you stay at IHG Hotels & Resorts. Earn 5 points per $1 spent on purchases on travel, at gas stations, and restaurants. Earn 3 points per $1 spent on all other purchases.
140,000Earn 140,000 Bonus Points after spending $3,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening.
on Chase's website
1x-9xEarn up to 9 points total for Hyatt stays – 4 Bonus Points per $1 spent on qualified purchases at Hyatt hotels & up to 5 Base Points per $1 from Hyatt as a World of Hyatt member. Earn 2 Bonus Points per $1 spent at restaurants, on airlines tickets purchased directly from the airlines, on local transit and commuting and on fitness club and gym memberships.
2 Free Nights + 25,000 PointsEarn 2 Free Nights after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. Plus, earn 25,000 Bonus Points after you spend $12,000 on purchases in the first 6 months from account opening.
on Chase's website
2x-17xEarn up to 17X total points per $1 spent at over 7,000 hotels participating in Marriott Bonvoy® with the Marriott Bonvoy Boundless® Card. 2X points for every $1 spent on all other purchases.
3 Free Night AwardsEarn 3 Free Nights (each night valued up to 50,000 points) after spending $3,000 on eligible purchases within 3 months of account opening with your Marriott Bonvoy Boundless® Credit Card. Certain hotels have resort fees.
Download the app
Disclaimer: 
NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date.
            This information may be different than what you see when you visit a
            financial institution, service provider or specific product's
            site. All financial products, shopping products and services are
            presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review
            the financial institution's Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified
            offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit
            score or information from your credit report, please contact
            TransUnion® directly.
NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539
NMLS Consumer Access

|

Licenses and Disclosures
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #60DBO-74812
Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services,
            Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  

Insurance Licenses
Fundera, Inc. NMLS ID# 1240038
NMLS Consumer Access
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to the
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #603L288
NerdWallet has engaged Atomic Invest LLC (“Atomic”), an SEC-registered
        investment adviser, to bring you the opportunity to open investment
        advisory accounts (Automated Investing Account and/or Treasury Account)
        with Atomic. NerdWallet receives compensation of up to 0.85% of assets
        under management annualized, payable monthly, for each referred client
        who opens an Atomic account and a percentage of free cash interest
        earned by clients, which creates a conflict of interest. Brokerage
        services for Atomic are provided by Atomic Brokerage LLC ("Atomic
        Brokerage"), member of FINRA/SIPC and an affiliate of Atomic, which creates a conflict of interest. See details
        about Atomic, in their Form CRS, Form ADV Part 2A and Privacy Policy. See details about Atomic Brokerage in their Form CRS,
General Disclosures, fee schedule, and FINRA’s BrokerCheck.
You also can open a Cash Account offered by Atomic Brokerage which
        allows you to earn interest on your cash through a cash sweep program.
        See important Cash Account disclosures here.
Neither Atomic Invest nor Atomic Brokerage, nor any of their affiliates
        is a bank. Investments in securities: Not FDIC Insured, Not Bank
        Guaranteed, May Lose Value. Investing involves risk, including the
        possible loss of principal. Before investing, consider your investment
        objectives and the fees and expenses charged.
Images are for illustrative purposes only.
NerdWallet™ | 4150 N Drinkwater Blvd, Suite 200, Scottsdale, AZ 85251