Naming a baby is no small feat, and parents will likely deliberate for most of the pregnancy on what they want to call their bundle of joy. From unique monikers to more traditional names, there are so many considerations parents will make. You don't want something that will appear again and again on their school's register, but also nothing so outlandish that you may open them up to bullying.
That's why, when one woman's friend was discussing baby name options with her, she felt that she had to speak up against the name and be completely honest. Her friend was going to name her baby after a TV demon.
Taking to Reddit, the woman explained: "My friend told me she was pregnant with her first child, which was super exciting. (This was a face-to-face interaction.) So I asked, 'Do you have any thoughts about the name?'
"She responds, 'Well, if it’s a girl, I will name her Mazikeen'. (Pronounced kinda like if you said magazine backwards lol).
"Apparently, the name is from a demon that is on the show Lucifer…
"I truly thought she was joking, so I laughed and said something along the lines of 'lol no way what'.
"She then proceeded to explain the name origin, to which I continued to think she was joking and said 'you’re going to name your child after a demon… suuuure'."
Because of how truthful she was in the interaction, her friend decided not to use the name for her baby.
"Thankfully, the baby wasn’t named that after all, and I feel somewhat responsible for the decision. Another win for any other human names on planet earth," she joked.
In the comments of the post, people highlighted that the name had a much deeper meaning than just a TV demon.
One wrote: "Mazakeen is a supernatural entity in Jewish mythology. It’s a harmful spirit. That’s a lot of bad juju for a baby! The DC comics people used it, and then the show used it".
Another replied: "The worst part is the kid would meet people brought up on Jewish mythology who would have terrible associations to it. Like people naming their kid Loki/Loke. They might think Marvel, Scandinavians will not".
Somebody defended the name Loki, however, saying: "At least Loki is primarily known for being a mischievous trickster, nowhere near being a demon, and shows/retellings often make him cool in various ways, so there's a positive underdog association to him. Leagues better than naming your kid after a demon or malicious spirit".
Some shared that it was more of a "pet name" than one for a baby, and the Redditor added that her friend was saving the name for her "next pet bird".
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.