This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
San Francisco 49ers tight end George Kittle raves about fellow Iowa alum Caitlin Clark and her handling of pressure ahead of his appearance at the American Century Classic.
San Francisco 49ers tight end George Kittle crashed his teammate Fred Warner’s interview on Tuesday to air out a grievance he has with the league.
The league informed all teams of a smelling salts ban before and during all NFL games, and the do-it-all tight end from the Bay Area is not happy.
"I honestly just came up here to air a grievance," Kittle said on NFL Network. "Our team got a memo today that smelling salts and ammonia packets were made illegal in the NFL, and I've been distraught all day."
CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
San Francisco 49ers tight end George Kittle, #85, looks on in the first half against the Arizona Cardinals at State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona, on Jan. 5, 2025. (Matt Kartozian-Imagn Images)
Kittle said he’s a regular user of smelling salts, which gives him a boost of energy, before offensive drives.
"I miss those already," he added.
GEORGE KITTLE'S SECRET GOLF WEAPON: WHY 49ERS STAR STILL USES ICONIC NIKE DRIVER FROM 2014
The memo, provided by ESPN, says teams are prohibited from "providing or supplying ammonia in any form," which includes ammonia capsules, inhalers, ammonia in a cup or any form of smelling salts.
This will be applicable throughout games, including pregame activities and halftime in and out of the locker room as well as on the sideline.
"In 2024, the FDA issued a warning to companies that produce commercially available ammonia inhalants (AIs), as well as to consumers about the purchase and use of AIs, regarding the lack of evidence supporting the safety or efficacy of AIs marketed for improving mental alertness or boosting energy," the memo read, per ESPN. "The FDA noted potential negative effects from AI use. AIs also have the potential to mask certain neurological signs and symptoms, including some potential signs of concussion.
San Francisco 49ers tight end George Kittle, #85, works out with his teammates during an OTA at Levi's Stadium on June 10, 2025. (D. Ross Cameron-Imagn Images)
"As a result, the NFL Head, Neck and Spine Committee recommended prohibiting the use of AIs for any purpose during NFL play."
Kittle jokingly said, "I considered retirement," after reading the memo on Tuesday. However, he likely isn’t the only one viewing this new directive in a bad light.
"We have got to figure out a middle ground here, guys.  Somebody help me out. Somebody come up with a good idea," he said. "That's all I had to get out there. Get that off my chest."
Tight end George Kittle, #85 of the San Francisco 49ers, warms up prior to an NFL football game against the Los Angeles Rams at Levi's Stadium on Dec. 12, 2024 in Santa Clara, California. (Brooke Sutton/Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Kittle is entering his ninth year in the NFL, all with the 49ers, and he’s coming off yet another season with over 1,000 yards receiving. He had 78 receptions for 1,106 yards with eight touchdowns.
The 31-year-old is one of the best at his position in the league, but he’s going to have to find his gameday energy boost elsewhere in 2025 and beyond.
Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X, and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter.
Scott Thompson is a sports writer for Fox News Digital.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.