A teen who claims he killed two kittens to quench his bloodlust for humans has been jailed for the sadistic crime.
A girl who helped him to torture, kill and dismember the pets was also jailed after they used rope to tie the innocent creatures up and "mutilate" them in Ruislip, North West London.
The body of one of the kittens was found open on the ground, with the other found hanging from a tree. It comes after children 'chase sheep off cliff' before turning on shocked passers-by.
The boy, 17 at the time of the crime, had expressed how he killed the cats to "reduce my urges" to kill a human in writings about the vicious act. He also noted how he "really wanted to murder someone".
A note found on his phone read: "I really wanted to murder someone and I was searching how to get away with murder. I have come close.
"I have killed cats to reduce my urges. I have skinned strangled and stabbed cats."
Investigators found he had made several searches about how to sacrifice animals to the devil, while the girl had visited horrific websites and downloaded pictures of dead bodies and butchered felines.
The boy pleaded guilty to causing unnecessary suffering to the animals and was hit with a 12-month sentence. The girl was detained for nine months for the same charge. Both were also charged with one count of possession of a knife in relation to the incident on May 3 at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court.
In CCTV footage, the 16-year-old girl and 17-year-old boy can be seen walking through a street in Ruislip, with the boy seen holding a bag that police say was used to carry the felines to the place they were killed.
The same camera later showed the pair fleeing back along the street after they committed the heinous acts.
Valerie Benjamin, prosecuting, explained how knives, blowtorches and scissors were found at the scene. She added that the kittens were found skinned and burned.
What makes the case even more worrying is how the boy had made a number of concerning searches, including "how to kill a human".
Ms Benjamin said: "There were concerns about his desire to go on to killing humans. He questioned how easy it would be get away with murder and how to kill homeless people."
Judge Hina Rai banned the pair from caring for animals for life during sentencing.
Crown Prosecution Service spokesperson Stephen Hancock: “This was an unimaginable act of cruelty on two defenceless animals which caused immense shock across our community.
“The manner in which these teenagers left the kittens was deeply disturbing and distressing.
“Instead of letting them hide behind their age, the CPS put forward the strongest possible charges to ensure they faced the full consequences of their actions.
“Whatever their motivation may have been, both defendants have now been disqualified from ever owning a pet and will have to live with a criminal record for the rest of their life.”
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.