Gangster with links to the Japanese Yakuza cartel pleaded guilty to drug charges in B.C. Supreme Court on Tuesday
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
A Richmond methamphetamine smuggler with links to the Japanese Yakuza cartel was sentenced Tuesday to eight years in prison.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
B.C. Supreme Court Justice Wendy Baker accepted a joint sentencing submission made by federal prosecutor Dan Meneley and Chun Yu Luk’s lawyer Chantal Paquette.
Luk was convicted last December on nine counts, including exporting almost 20 kilograms of methamphetamine to Japan and possessing for the purpose of trafficking fentanyl, carfentanil, methamphetamine, cocaine and MDMA.
Baker said the eight years was appropriate because “the volume of drugs and money found with Mr. Luk take him out of the range of the low-level trafficker.”
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sunrise will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
She noted that the fentanyl found in his Richmond condo at 8080 Cambie St. was estimated to be worth almost $500,000, while the exported meth was valued at between $200,000 and $300,000.
She accepted that Luk worked within a mid-level organization that was involved in both local street sales, as well as some international drug shipments.
“The drugs that were being trafficked were serious drugs and are responsible for many deaths in the province. This is conduct which leans in favour of a lengthier sentence,” Baker said.
Meneley entered the agreed statement of facts in the case, which laid out the origins of the investigation into Luk’s group, which began six years ago.
In August 2019, the Canada Border Services Agency examined a package mailed to Japan from a postal outlet inside a Richmond tea store. Testing showed it contained methamphetamine. The Japanese National Police Agency was contacted and a controlled delivery was arranged.
A month later, a second package was sent from the Aberdeen Mall.
“Again, a controlled delivery was arranged in conjunction with the (Japanese National Police Agency),” the statement said.
Photos and video from the two postal outlets showed Luk and a second accused, Shuai Yuan, mailing the packages.
The RCMP then watched Luk making drug transactions on Nov. 8, 2019. A search warrant was executed in June 2020 at the Richmond condo Luk shared with his common-law spouse Ya Bobo Chen. Yuan was also in the unit when police arrived.
That is where all the other drugs were located, as well as a firearm, a replica gun, two tasers, three laptops, nine mobile phones, four sets of scales and a radio jammer.
The Mounties also seized more than $95,000 in the condo, which has been the subject of a civil forfeiture lawsuit. Luk agreed to forfeit the cash and other items as part of the sentencing.
Paquette noted that Luk had struggled with both mental illness and substance use disorder, leading to some of his criminal history.
“He had an unstable childhood. His criminal record really started after a downward spiral when his father committed suicide,” she told Baker. “His father had some gambling issues, and his mother found out, asked for a divorce, and it led to Mr. Luk’s father dying by suicide, which was very difficult on him, understandably, and that led him to use substances more heavily and to associate with negative peers and really make some bad choices.”
But both Paquette and Meneley agreed that at the time of the drug offences in 2019 and 2020, Luk was stable and receiving treatment for his mental illness.
“In these circumstances, his moral culpability is not reduced by his mental illness,” Meneley said. “In fact, his successful treatment enabled these offences.”
Chen had also been facing drug charges, but those were stayed Tuesday after Luk was sentenced.
Meanwhile, the whereabouts of Yuan, Luk’s alleged accomplice, is currently unknown. A warrant has been issued for his arrest.
When they was charged in 2022, the RCMP said it had dismantled “a B.C.-based international organized crime network” with associates in Japan who had “confirmed ties to the infamous Japanese Yakuza transnational organized crime syndicate.”
kbolan@postmedia.com
x.com/kbolan
Bluesky: ‪@kimbolan.bsky.social‬
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.