A man has died after falling from a height at an Oasis concert on Saturday, the Metropolitan Police has said.
Police said officers and medics at Wembley Stadium in London responded to reports that a man in his 40s had been injured at 22:19 BST.
The man "was found with injuries consistent with a fall" and was pronounced dead at the scene, a spokesperson for the force said.
Oasis said in a statement they were "shocked and saddened" to hear of the death of a fan.
They added: "Oasis would like to extend our sincere condolences to the family and friends of the person involved."
The man reportedly fell from an upper tier.
Police said the stadium was busy and they "believe it is likely a number of people witnessed the incident, or may knowingly or unknowingly have caught it on mobile phone video footage".
The Met has asked anyone who may have information to get in touch via 101.
It added that the investigation would be passed to the Health and Safety Executive in the next few days.
Oasis's performance was scheduled to begin at 20:15 and end at 22:15, according to timings on Wembley Stadium's website.
The band began its Oasis Live '25 reunion tour in July. Saturday's concert was part of seven sold-out reunion concerts at Wembley Stadium, which has a 90,000-person capacity across three tiers.
Noel and Liam Gallagher are marking the end of an almost 16-year split with their tour.
Wembley Stadium said in a statement that medics, police and the London Ambulance service attended to the injured man.
"Despite their efforts, the fan very sadly died.  Our thoughts go out to his family, who have been informed and are being supported by specially trained police officers," it said.
The Oasis concert on Sunday went ahead as planned.
The band will next appear in Edinburgh for three gigs on 8, 9 and 12 August and then take their tour to Ireland, Canada, the US and Mexico before returning to Wembley on 27 and 28 September.
Manchester City Council says the money is coming from hiring out its parks and taxing big venues.
Supernova got to perform at Wembley's Boxpark ahead of the Oasis gig.
The Gallagher brothers are playing seven sold-out nights at the famous stadium.
Images of the Gallagher brothers are on display in Wembley Park, ahead of the sold-out Oasis shows.
The Gallagher brothers and their band Oasis return to Wembley Stadium for the first time since 2009.
Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.