Beauty boxes have surged in popularity over recent years, being the perfect way to try out new products at a fraction of the price or a chance to stock up on some already-loved favourites.
If you're a perfume lover, you'll be pleased to hear about Next's latest Fragrance Edit Beauty Box. This affordable box features £56 worth of scents and is available for £22. Inside, you'll receive five different perfumes, mists, and candles, in a mix of full-size, mini, and sample sizes.
So what scents are inside? First up, you can choose from two different travel-sized Floral Street fragrances. One is Arizona Bloom, a floral-based scent mixed with Balinese coconut, black pepper and salted musk. The second option is Vanilla Orchid, a warming combination of fresh jasmine and vanilla.
Next up is a deluxe sample of YSL's shopper-loved Black Opium. This designer perfume has been described as "sultry, sexy and feminine", and this sample size is a great chance to test it out without committing to splashing out on the full size.
READ MORE: Anaïs Gallagher nails ‘rock star daughter’ glam with £25 kohl eyeliner at Oasis gig
READ MORE: Lindsay Lohan’s youthful Freakier Friday premiere look was thanks to ‘weightless’ skin tint
The third scent is a choice between two Bath & Body Works travel-size body mists. The options are A Thousand Wishes, a layerable mature floral mist, or Gingham, which smells of freesia, white peach and clementine. Compact body mists are always so handy to chuck in your bag and spritz on the go.
Following on from this is a full-size NUXE Sun Delicious Fragrant Water. This scent is quite literally summer in a bottle, with its notes of sweet orange, petitgrain and coconut.
Lastly is a NUXE Huile Prodigieuse Candle, whcih smells of orange blossom, magnolia and vanilla, and is the perfect warming addition to your home.
If you're looking for more beauty boxes and bundles to shop this summer, Boots has dropped a limited-edition SPF kit featuring four of Supergoop's bestselling sun protection products (*including two full sizes) for £44 despite being worth £92.25. That brings each product down to just £11, a significant discount when you consider one full-size tube of Unseen Sunscreen usually costs up to £34 alone.
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.