Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
       from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
       get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
       and more. Learn More
Key Points
Bitcoin has performed well, but you might be surprised to learn just how well.
If you had the foresight, or simply the good luck, to have invested $1,000 in Bitcoin (BTC -0.47%) a decade ago, and never sold, you would have more than $398,000 today. And keep in mind that this was after an already remarkable run that saw Bitcoin rise from a fraction of a cent in 2010 to about $300 per coin.
You can see Bitcoin's exponential rise over the past 10 years in the chart below:
Bitcoin Price data by YCharts
As you can see from the chart, Bitcoin's rise has been a bit lumpy over the past decade, and there were a few specific catalysts that helped fuel nearly 400-fold gains in its price:
The recent crypto-friendly policies and legislative efforts of the Trump administration has also fueled the latest rally to all-time highs in Bitcoin. For example, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) recently clarified that chartered financial institutions can serve as cryptocurrency custodians. This is what prompted SoFi Technologies to announce the return of cryptocurrency trading, and it wouldn't be surprising to see more banks follow.
Image source: Getty Images.
As a final thought, keep in mind that 10 years ago, Bitcoin, cryptocurrency, and financial technology in general weren't anything even close to what they are today. At the time, Bitcoin was used by a very small percentage of early adopters, and had yet to gain mainstream recognition, especially as a digital store of money.
Matt Frankel, CFP, is a contributing Motley Fool Personal Finance Expert and Stock Market Analyst covering financial and real estate sectors, plus personal finance.
Prior to The Motley Fool, Matt was a high school and collegiate mathematics instructor.
He holds a B.S. in Physics from University of South Carolina, an M.S. in Mathematics from Nova Southeastern University, and a graduate certificate in financial planning from Florida State University.
Fun fact: Matt won a SABEW award for coverage of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Matt Frankel has positions in SoFi Technologies. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bitcoin. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Stocks Mentioned
*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Related Articles
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
© 1995 - 2025 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends