Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.
Advertisement
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
The Royal Society has been publishing more than half of its content open-access by charging article-processing fees.Credit: Nigel Bowles/Alamy
The UK Royal Society is converting eight of its journals to the ‘subscribe to open’ (S2O) publishing model, starting next year. The not-for-profit publisher, which produces ten titles, including the world’s first peer-reviewed journals, announced the decision today.
The S2O model makes the content a journal publishes on a given year free to access and publish, as long as enough libraries commit to paying an annual subscription fee. Without sufficient subscriptions, a journal will continue to charge publishing fees — known as article-processing charges (APCs).
In 2020, only 17% of articles published by the Royal Society were open access. That figure rose to 60% in 2024, but dropped to 55% for those published so far this year. The S2O model “is as clean and as simple a transition to open access as you can do. It gets us to 100% open access in one stroke,” says Rod Cookson, the Royal Society’s publishing director, who is based in Oxford, UK.
André Gaul, chief executive of EMS Press in Berlin, the publishing house of the European Mathematical Society, calls the Royal Society’s announcement “a fantastic move” and hopes that more publishers will follow suit.
If there are not enough subscriptions to cover the publication costs, the Royal Society will continue charging APCs and try again in 2027. The society’s two remaining journals will continue to be published under the APC-based open-access model.
The Royal Society is joining a growing wave of scientific publishers that are implementing the S2O model. This year, 378 journals are published under this model — up from 192 last year.
Annual Reviews, a non-profit publisher in San Mateo, California, pioneered the model with five journals in 2020. By 2023, all of its 51 journals had switched to S2O.
EMS Press was one of the early publishers to follow suit. They trialled the model with 10 journals in 2021, and expanded it to all 22 journals by 2024. The publisher currently has just under 1,600 subscribers from 58 countries.
“So far, we found it to be very sustainable, because it repurposes traditional library spending. There’s no additional budget needed. There’s no kind of extra component on top of what they’re already spending,” says Laura Simonite, head of business development at EMS Press.
EDP Sciences, a publisher in Les Ulis, France, also began its S2O programme in 2021. It now publishes seven journals under the model, including its largest one, Astronomy & Astrophysics; Radioprotection; and six mathematics journals.
In 2023, EDP Sciences had to keep Radioprotection paywalled because subscriptions did not reach the threshold needed for S2O. The publisher said that “this decision was not a failure of the model, but rather a result of its conditional nature”. With renewed subscriptions and extra financial support from the French Society for Radioprotection, the journal became open access again last year.
The publisher also struggled to keep its six mathematical journals open access this year. But it received financial backing from the French Society for Applied and Industrial Mathematics and France’s National Centre for Scientific Research, allowing the journals to remain free to all.
For Astronomy & Astrophysics, “the sustainability of this model is precarious, and required a very strong collaboration with [the journal’s] executive board to maintain open access”, says Selina La Barbera, the journal publishing director at EDP Sciences.
or
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02483-0
Reprints and permissions
Could libraries band together to ensure open access for all?
Who should pay for open-access publishing? APC alternatives emerge
Open-access reformers launch next bold publishing plan
These universities have the most retracted scientific articles
The peer-review crisis: how to fix an overloaded system
News Feature 06 AUG 25
Does ResearchGate have a growing credibility problem?
Nature Index 05 AUG 25
Version control: how I combat the rise of generative AI in the classroom
Career Column 05 AUG 25
AI4I is seeking to appoint the Founding Heads of its Research & Development Labs.
Turin (IT)
The Italian Institute of Artificial Intelligence for Industry (AI4I)
Title:  Associate or Senior Editor (Thermoelectrics & Thermal Engineering) Location: Shanghai, Nanjing, Beijing, Madrid, Milan, New York, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Nanjing, Beijing, Madrid, Milan, New York, Jersey City, or Washington DC
Springer Nature Ltd
Job Title:  Deputy Editor, Communications Health   Locations: New York, Jersey City, Shanghai or Beijing (Hybrid working model)  Application Deadli...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Postdoctoral fellow to study multimodal omics integration in neurodegeneration.
Baltimore, Maryland
Johns Hopkins University - BrainSigns Lab
Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Reviews Earth & Environment Organization: Nature Portfolio Locations: New York or Shanghai -Hybrid Workin...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Could libraries band together to ensure open access for all?
Who should pay for open-access publishing? APC alternatives emerge
Open-access reformers launch next bold publishing plan
These universities have the most retracted scientific articles
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Nature
                    
                    (Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited