We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free.
So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners.
The Repayment Assistance Plan will replace existing income-driven repayment plans starting in 2026.
Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money.
How is this page expert verified?
NerdWallet's content is fact-checked for accuracy, timeliness and relevance. It undergoes a thorough review process involving writers and editors to ensure the information is as clear and complete as possible.
Lead Writer
Eliza Haverstock is NerdWallet's higher education writer, where she covers all aspects of college affordability and student loans. Previously, she reported on billionaires and investing for Forbes in New York, and she also covered private markets for PitchBook in Seattle. Eliza got started at her college newspaper at the University of Virginia and interned for Bloomberg, where she spent a summer writing a feature story about plastic straws. She is based in Washington, D.C.
Editor & Content Strategist
Laura McMullen assigns and edits financial news content. She was previously a senior writer at NerdWallet and covered saving, making and budgeting money; she also contributed to the "Millennial Money" column for The Associated Press. Before joining NerdWallet in 2015, Laura worked for U.S. News & World Report, where she wrote and edited content related to careers, wellness and education and also contributed to the company's rankings projects. Before working at U.S. News & World Report, Laura interned at Vice Media and studied journalism, history and Arabic at Ohio University. Laura lives in Washington, D.C.
The Repayment Assistance Plan, or RAP, is the newest student loan repayment plan, created from President Donald Trump’s “big, beautiful bill.”
The plan is slated to roll out on July 1, 2026. It will replace the existing income-driven repayment program. While some borrowers might have lower monthly bills on RAP compared to existing income-driven repayment plans, they may also see a longer repayment term and pay more overall.
Most federal student loan borrowers can access RAP, including borrowers with graduate school debt. However, parent PLUS loan borrowers aren’t eligible.
Repayment term until forgiveness: 30 years.
Payment amounts: 1-10% of your annual adjusted gross income; percentage is based on earning level. $10 flat payments for those earning $10,000 per year or less.
Other qualifications: Must have federal direct or grad PLUS loans.
Best for: Borrowers with a large amount of debt relative to their income, who take out a loan on or after July 1, 2026. Those borrowers are ineligible for existing income-driven repayment plans.
» MORE: How Trump’s 'big, beautiful bill' impacts student loan borrowers
New and existing borrowers may sign up for RAP starting on July 1, 2026.
If you took out all of your student loans prior to July 1, 2026, you will have these repayment options going forward:
RAP.
Income-Based Repayment (IBR) plan.
Standard repayment plan.
Graduated repayment plan.
Extended repayment plan.
The Education Department will eliminate the Saving on a Valuable Education (SAVE), Pay as You Earn (PAYE) and Income-Contingent Repayment (ICR) plans by July 1, 2028. IBR and RAP will be your only income-driven options.
If you take out a new student loan on or after July 1, 2026, all of your loans will become ineligible for IBR, along with the graduated and extended plans. (July 1, 2026 is the first day you can take out a federal student loan for the 2026-27 academic year.)
Instead, you will only have two repayment options:
RAP.
Standard repayment plan, which is not tied to income.
This is the case even if you have some older loans, because you must repay all loans on the same repayment plan. For example:
Say you started your undergraduate program during the 2024-2025 school year and took out a federal student loan. Then for the third school year — 2026-2027 — you need to borrow more. Now it’s after that July 1, 2026 deadline. So both loans, including those from the 2024-2025 school year, would be ineligible for IBR.
Or, maybe you finished your undergrad in 2024 and already have federal loans. If you go back to school for a master's degree in 2027 and take out federal loans for it, both those and the undergrad loans would become ineligible for IBR.
Date
RAP timeline update
July 1, 2026.
RAP becomes available. New and existing borrowers can elect to enroll in the plan.
Borrowers who take out a new loan on or after this date will only have access to RAP or the standard repayment plan.
July 1, 2026 - June 30, 2028.
Borrowers with all pre-July 1, 2026 loans can remain in their current income-driven repayment plan – SAVE, PAYE, ICR or IBR – during this time.
However, they must enroll in the Income-Based Repayment (IBR) plan by June 30, 2028 at the latest to get grandfathered into the income-driven repayment program.
July 1, 2028.
The latest date when borrowers with all pre-July 1, 2026 loans, who are still enrolled in SAVE, PAYE or ICR, will be moved into RAP. They will not have the option to enroll in IBR in the future.
RAP monthly payments are graduated based on your annual adjusted gross income (AGI) in the previous tax year. The more you earn, the larger the slice of your income you’ll pay each month toward your student loans.
Annual income bracket
RAP base payment
$0 - $10,000.
$10.
$10,001 - $20,000.
1% of adjusted gross income (AGI).
$20,001 - $30,000.
2% of AGI.
$30,001 - $40,000.
3% of AGI.
$40,001 - $50,000.
4% of AGI.
$50,001 - $60,000.
5% of AGI.
$60,001 - $70,000.
6% of AGI.
$70,001 - $80,000.
7% of AGI.
$80,001 - $90,000.
8% of AGI.
$90,001 - $100,000.
9% of AGI.
$100,001 and above.
10% of AGI.
» MORE: How to calculate your adjusted gross income (AGI)
Once you have your base payment, use this formula to calculate your monthly RAP bill:
(RAP base payment / 12) - $50 per dependent = Estimated monthly RAP payment
One key group is blocked from RAP: parent PLUS borrowers.
If you have existing parent PLUS loans, and you want lower payments based on income at any point in the future, you must do the following:
Consolidate your loans before July 1, 2026.
Enroll in the Income-Contingent Repayment (ICR) plan by July 1, 2028 at the very latest.
These moves will allow you to transition to the IBR plan, so you can stay in the income-driven repayment system until you pay off your loans. If you don't do this, the standard repayment plan will be your only option going forward.
Any borrowers who take out a new parent PLUS loan on or after July 1, 2026 can only access the standard plan — including for any older parent PLUS loans. Keep this in mind if you have a student who is currently in college.
Borrowers who take out loans on or after July 1, 2026, must choose RAP in order to benefit from Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF). PSLF forgives remaining federal student debt after 10 years of working a public service job and making student loan payments.
Though the RAP still ties payments to income, it has a few key differences from existing income-driven repayment plans. For example:
RAP doesn’t take inflation into account. RAP uses adjusted gross income (AGI) to calculate payments, while IDR plans use discretionary income.
Discretionary income for IDR plans is the difference between your income and 100%, 150% or 225% of the federal poverty line. Additionally, the federal poverty line changes over time in response to inflation, so discretionary income — and student loan payments — change as a result.
AGI is your income minus some tax deductions, and it does not take inflation over time into account. That means RAP payments may become more difficult to manage in the long-term.
Changes to family size discounts. IDR plans adjust payments based on family size — which may include parents or other adults in your home. The RAP calculation only considers dependent children.
No $0 payments. Unlike income-driven repayment plans, you’ll never have $0 monthly payments on RAP if you lose your job or have a very low income. The lowest payment you can have is $10.
RAP is more expensive than SAVE for all borrowers. Borrowers face higher monthly payments on RAP than on SAVE, regardless of their income or family size, according to a recent analysis by the Student Borrower Protection Center, a nonprofit borrower advocacy and research group. Introduced by the Biden administration, SAVE was previously the most affordable student loan plan.
The ICR plan is the only existing income-driven option that is consistently more expensive than RAP, the analysis found.
» MORE: How to navigate the SAVE lawsuits
Repayment plan name
Repayment Assistance Plan (RAP)
Income-Based Repayment (IBR)
Saving on a Valuable Education (SAVE)
Income-Contingent Repayment (ICR)
Pay as You Earn (PAYE)
Repayment term / time to forgiveness
30 years.
20 or 25 years.
20 or 25 years.
25 years.
20 years.
Amount of protected income (remainder is discretionary)
None.
150% of income above the federal poverty line for your location and family size.
225% of income above the federal poverty line for your location and family size.
100% of income above the federal poverty line for your location and family size.
150% of income above the federal poverty line for your location and family size.
Payment amounts
$10, or 1-10% of your adjusted gross income.
10% or 15% of discretionary income.
10% of discretionary income.
20% of discretionary income.
10% of discretionary income.
Family size deductions
$50 monthly discount per dependent child.
Formula takes total family size into account.
Formula takes total family size into account.
Formula takes total family size into account.
Formula takes total family size into account.
Interest accrual
Unpaid interest each month is waived, so balance can’t grow.
Unpaid interest each month waived for first three years on subsidized loans; no interest waiver on other loan types.
Unpaid interest each month is waived, so balance can’t grow.
No interest subsidy. Unpaid interest builds each month, potentially increasing outstanding balance.
Unpaid interest each month waived for first three years on subsidized loans; no interest waiver on other loan types.
» MORE: How to get student loan help
If you’re currently enrolled in one of the three income-driven repayment plans that are going away — SAVE, PAYE or ICR — your student loan servicer will automatically move you into the RAP by July 1, 2028. There’s no going back.
You can avoid RAP by signing up for the Income-Based Repayment (IBR) plan on studentaid.gov/IDR before July 1, 2028 — at the very latest. Don’t delay your IBR enrollment, since applications can take time to process, and the Education Department may try to speed up this deadline.
If you enroll in IBR, you can stay on that plan until you pay off your loans. You’ll still have the option to switch to RAP or the standard plan down the line.
The better repayment plan — RAP or IBR — depends on your income, overall financial situation, family size and student debt amount. Before choosing between RAP and IBR, compare your estimated monthly payments, total repayment costs and forgiveness timelines under each plan.
» NEXT STEPS: How to enroll in income-driven repayment
ON THIS PAGE
ON THIS PAGE
Download the app
Disclaimer: 
NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date.
            This information may be different than what you see when you visit a
            financial institution, service provider or specific product's
            site. All financial products, shopping products and services are
            presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review
            the financial institution's Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified
            offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit
            score or information from your credit report, please contact
            TransUnion® directly.
NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539
NMLS Consumer Access

|

Licenses and Disclosures
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #60DBO-74812
Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services,
            Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  

Insurance Licenses
Fundera, Inc. NMLS ID# 1240038
NMLS Consumer Access
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to the
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #603L288
NerdWallet has engaged Atomic Invest LLC (“Atomic”), an SEC-registered
        investment adviser, to bring you the opportunity to open investment
        advisory accounts (Automated Investing Account and/or Treasury Account)
        with Atomic. NerdWallet receives compensation of up to 0.85% of assets
        under management annualized, payable monthly, for each referred client
        who opens an Atomic account and a percentage of free cash interest
        earned by clients, which creates a conflict of interest. Brokerage
        services for Atomic are provided by Atomic Brokerage LLC ("Atomic
        Brokerage"), member of FINRA/SIPC and an affiliate of Atomic, which creates a conflict of interest. See details
        about Atomic, in their Form CRS, Form ADV Part 2A and Privacy Policy. See details about Atomic Brokerage in their Form CRS,
General Disclosures, fee schedule, and FINRA’s BrokerCheck.
You also can open a Cash Account offered by Atomic Brokerage which
        allows you to earn interest on your cash through a cash sweep program.
        See important Cash Account disclosures here.
Neither Atomic Invest nor Atomic Brokerage, nor any of their affiliates
        is a bank. Investments in securities: Not FDIC Insured, Not Bank
        Guaranteed, May Lose Value. Investing involves risk, including the
        possible loss of principal. Before investing, consider your investment
        objectives and the fees and expenses charged.
Images are for illustrative purposes only.
NerdWallet™ | 4150 N Drinkwater Blvd, Suite 200, Scottsdale, AZ 85251