We all do it - the pre-holiday rush where you’re setting light timers, locking windows and making sure no parcels are left at the door.
But according to experts, there’s one giveaway that’s often ignored - your wheelie bin. If you leave it out for days while you’re away, it can be a dead giveaway to burglars that no one’s home.
“While people often leave lights on timers, avoid deliveries, and shut blinds, they don’t give their bins too much thought when heading away on holiday,” says Mark Hall, waste collection expert at BusinessWaste.co.uk, It comes after Brits are told to never put one banned item in garden bins as you could face punishment.
“Happily putting them out early for the next collection and allowing them to be left for multiple days afterwards. However, this is a huge tell for burglars that you’re not at home."
It might seem harmless, but an untouched bin can signal you’re away and burglars are sharper than you think when it comes to spotting patterns.
Instead, ask a neighbour, If you don’t have a neighbour available, consider asking friends or family if you’re really concerned about missing a collection.
If you don’t have anyone to ask, it’s better to miss a collection than to risk bringing attention to your vacant home. Consider reducing your waste in the run-up to your holiday and making use of recycling streams to reduce your need for bin space.
And it’s not just collection day you need to think about – where you store your bin matters too. Keep them away from windows or walls so they can’t be used as a ladder. If you can, store them in a shed or position them under CCTV or motion-sensor lights.
“Moving bins away from your home and avoiding leaving them out when you’re away is such a simple action, but it really can make all the difference,” adds Mark. “Ensure you add it to your pre-holiday to-do list.”
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.