Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.
Advertisement
Nikki Forrester is a science journalist based in Davis, West Virginia.
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
Erasto Job is a technician at TRí in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Credit: Kang-Chun Cheng for Nature
“Many people in Tanzania rely on three-wheeled vehicles because they are among the cheapest and safest modes of transportation. There are about 250,000 three-wheelers in the country and most use internal combustion engines.
In 2022, I began working at TRí, a company in Dar es Salaam that aims to make three-wheeler transportation more sustainable and affordable by selling electric versions. Last year, we launched our second generation of vehicles, called E2, which have more features, including better range and an on-board charger, which enables charging from standard outlets. We’ve sold 200 E2s so far.
As a technician, I assemble the electric three-wheelers and fix any mechanical or electrical issues that arise in those that we’ve sold. It takes about two and a half hours to assemble a vehicle from the set that we receive from China, but repairs can take anything from one hour to two days, depending on the problem. For example, sometimes the lights don’t work or the three-wheeler turns on and off by itself.
or
Nature 644, 298 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02463-4
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
‘We have less than ten minutes’: how I communicate with spacecraft from the ground
A motorcycle ride through the forest: how I protect Nigeria’s wildlife
Research is powered by technical talent — and recognition is finally on the rise
What it’s like fighting racism and sexism in shark science
Career Q&A 04 AUG 25
I could not have become an astronomer on my own
Career Feature 01 AUG 25
My AI chatbot thinks my idea is fundable
Career Column 31 JUL 25
To save lives in heatwaves, focus on how human bodies work
Comment 04 AUG 25
Budget brainwaves: low-cost system collects brain data outside the lab
News 21 JUL 25
Without science, there can be no development
Editorial 15 JUL 25
Real-time in-situ magnetization reprogramming for soft robotics
Article 04 AUG 25
Hard paths: how courage differs from bravery in science
Career Q&A 28 JUL 25
Mechanical underwater adhesive devices for soft substrates
Article 23 JUL 25
Dean of the Medical School Dean of the School of Life Sciences
Nanjing, Jiangsu (CN)
Nanjing University
Founding Dean of the School of Robotics and Automation; School of Biomedical Engineering; School of Mechanical and Advanced Manufacturing.
Suzhou, Jiangsu (CN)
Nanjing University
NTU AI4X-PDF empowers early-career researchers to harness AI for breakthroughs in STEM, fostering innovation and boosting Singapore’s AI ecosystem
Singapore (SG)
Nanyang Technological University (NTU)
Postdoc opportunity to engage in both foundational machine learning research and high-impact interdisciplinary applications in the life sciences.
Vienna, Austria
AITHYRA GmbH - Research Institute for Biomedical Artificial Intelligence of the Austrian Academy of Sciences
Shenzhen, Guangdong (CN)
Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation
‘We have less than ten minutes’: how I communicate with spacecraft from the ground
A motorcycle ride through the forest: how I protect Nigeria’s wildlife
Research is powered by technical talent — and recognition is finally on the rise
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Nature
                    
                    (Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited