We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free.
So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners.
Saturdays in February can get expensive.
Many or all of the products on this page are from partners who compensate us when you click to or take an action on their website, but this does not influence our evaluations or ratings. Our opinions are our own.
How is this page expert verified?
NerdWallet's content is fact-checked for accuracy, timeliness and relevance. It undergoes a thorough review process involving writers and editors to ensure the information is as clear and complete as possible.
Lead Writer/Spokesperson
Sally French is co-host of the Smart Travel podcast and a writer on NerdWallet's travel team. Before joining NerdWallet as a travel rewards expert in 2020, she wrote about travel and credit cards for The New York Times and its sibling site, Wirecutter.
Outside of work, she loves fitness, and she competes in both powerlifting and weightlifting (she can deadlift more than triple bodyweight). Naturally, her travels always involve a fitness component, including a week of cycling up the coastline of Vietnam and a camping trip to the Arctic Circle, where she biked over the sea ice. Other adventures have included hiking 25 miles in one day through Italy's Cinque Terre and climbing the 1,260 steps to Tiger Cave Temple in Krabi, Thailand.
She lives in San Francisco.
Managing Editor
Claire Tsosie is a managing editor for the travel rewards team at NerdWallet. She started her career on the credit cards team as a writer. Her work has been featured by Forbes, USA Today and The Associated Press.
Let’s just say this: If you want a great deal on Walt Disney World tickets, try visiting on a Wednesday in late summer.
NerdWallet analyzed more than 18 months’ worth of ticket data to find out the cheapest days to go to Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida.
Here’s what we found:
Prices don’t vary much by day of the week, but they vary a lot by month. Late summer has the lowest-cost tickets by far.
But if you’re looking for every possible opportunity to save:
Wednesdays are the cheapest day of the week to visit.
September is the cheapest month to visit.
Summer is the cheapest season to visit.
In summer, Florida’s heat, humidity and hurricane risks drive down demand and ticket prices. But if you’re flexible and prepared for possible weather cancellations and delays, the savings could be worth it.
This analysis was done in July 2025. Prices were based on publicly available March 2025 data for adult ticket prices. The dates analyzed spanned March 2025 through October 2026, and were pulled from the official Walt Disney World website. Figures were based on a one-day ticket, though Disney offers discounts for longer stays.
Disney prices vary by day and by park, so ticket prices were based on the cheapest park of that particular day (typically Disney’s Animal Kingdom Theme Park). The four theme parks at Walt Disney World Resort are Disney's Animal Kingdom Theme Park, Disney's Hollywood Studios, Epcot and Magic Kingdom Park.
In this article
Wednesday is the cheapest day of the week to go to Disney World, and Saturday is the most expensive — but the difference is small.
Wednesday tickets average just under $153, about $7 cheaper than Saturday. Still, for large groups, that could add up.
Here’s the average ticket price by day of the week:
Day
Average adult one-day ticket price
Wednesday
$152.99.
Tuesday
$153.82.
Thursday
$154.30.
Monday
$158.52.
Friday
$158.81.
Sunday
$161.58.
Saturday
$160.01.
If you’ve ever wilted in Florida’s summer heat, you won’t be surprised that late summer is the most affordable time to visit Disney World — and the data backs that up.
September is the cheapest month to visit Disney World, with an average one-day ticket price of just under $127.
That’s about $45 less than February, the most expensive month to visit.
With hurricane season peaking in late summer, consider travel insurance. Look for a policy that offers trip cancellation, trip interruption and delay coverage, and make sure it covers weather-related disruptions. If you're using a travel credit card, check whether it already includes built-in travel protections. In some cases, you may not need to buy a separate policy.
Here’s the full breakdown by month:
Month
Average adult one-day ticket price
September
$126.73.
August
$133.60.
July
$156.18.
June
$158.25.
May
$159.24.
January
$161.58.
October
$163.19.
November
$164.67.
December
$167.39.
April
$169.
March
$169.39.
February
$172.39.
One benefit of visiting in August or September: You'll get Halloween vibes for less.
Because Halloween is one of the most popular times to visit, the park gets its spooky and festive decor by mid-August. It also hosts an after-hours, separately-ticketed event called Mickey’s Not-So-Scary Halloween Party.
Yes, winter is magical with holiday decor and hot cocoa, but it’s also the priciest season by far. If you can brave the Florida heat, you’ll spend less by traveling in the summer.
Here’s how the seasons shake out:
Season
Average adult one-day ticket price
Summer
$144.97.
Fall
$159.42.
Spring
$162.93.
Winter
$168.17.
Book off-peak days. Ticket prices for the days studied ranged from $119 to $179. The highest concentration of those $119 tickets were on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in late August and most weeks in September, aside from Labor Day.
Meanwhile, you’re likely to find those $179 tickets in February, when the weather in Orlando is mild.
Look for promotions. You might also be able to save through Disney’s limited-time ticket promotions, which often expire in late summer. For example, Disney has a deal where tickets for kids ages 3 to 9 are 50% off if you book three days or longer. That offer is available through Sept. 20, 2025.
Buy discounted tickets. You can get deals on Disney tickets by leveraging affiliations or memberships. AAA often offers discounts, and Disney also often offers military discounts. If you have credit card points, it’s sometimes possible to redeem them for Disney tickets. It’s also possible to find discount Disney tickets through third-party, authorized resellers such as Undercover Tourist.
on Undercover Tourist®'s website
on Undercover Tourist®'s website
Pros
Cons
Pros
Cons
Have fun outside the parks. You don’t need a park ticket every day to have fun. There are all sorts of free things to do outside the parks. You can see animals at Animal Kingdom Lodge or watch fireworks from the Polynesian Village Resort beach — no hotel stay required. Disney even pipes in the music.
You want a travel credit card that prioritizes what’s important to you. Here are some of the best travel credit cards of 2025:
Flexibility, point transfers and a large bonus: Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card
No annual fee: Wells Fargo Autograph® Card
Flat-rate travel rewards: Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card
Bonus travel rewards and high-end perks: Chase Sapphire Reserve®
Luxury perks: The Platinum Card® from American Express
Business travelers: Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card
Table of Contents
Download the app
Disclaimer: 
NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date.
            This information may be different than what you see when you visit a
            financial institution, service provider or specific product's
            site. All financial products, shopping products and services are
            presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review
            the financial institution's Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified
            offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit
            score or information from your credit report, please contact
            TransUnion® directly.
NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539
NMLS Consumer Access

|

Licenses and Disclosures
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #60DBO-74812
Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services,
            Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  

Insurance Licenses
Fundera, Inc. NMLS ID# 1240038
NMLS Consumer Access
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to the
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #603L288
NerdWallet has engaged Atomic Invest LLC (“Atomic”), an SEC-registered
        investment adviser, to bring you the opportunity to open investment
        advisory accounts (Automated Investing Account and/or Treasury Account)
        with Atomic. NerdWallet receives compensation of up to 0.85% of assets
        under management annualized, payable monthly, for each referred client
        who opens an Atomic account and a percentage of free cash interest
        earned by clients, which creates a conflict of interest. Brokerage
        services for Atomic are provided by Atomic Brokerage LLC ("Atomic
        Brokerage"), member of FINRA/SIPC and an affiliate of Atomic, which creates a conflict of interest. See details
        about Atomic, in their Form CRS, Form ADV Part 2A and Privacy Policy. See details about Atomic Brokerage in their Form CRS,
General Disclosures, fee schedule, and FINRA’s BrokerCheck.
You also can open a Cash Account offered by Atomic Brokerage which
        allows you to earn interest on your cash through a cash sweep program.
        See important Cash Account disclosures here.
Neither Atomic Invest nor Atomic Brokerage, nor any of their affiliates
        is a bank. Investments in securities: Not FDIC Insured, Not Bank
        Guaranteed, May Lose Value. Investing involves risk, including the
        possible loss of principal. Before investing, consider your investment
        objectives and the fees and expenses charged.
Images are for illustrative purposes only.
NerdWallet™ | 4150 N Drinkwater Blvd, Suite 200, Scottsdale, AZ 85251