The Kremlin says US envoy Steve Witkoff and Russia's Vladimir Putin have held "constructive" talks, as Donald Trump's deadline for Moscow to agree a ceasefire in Ukraine looms.
Foreign policy aide Yuri Ushakov said that, during their three-hour meeting, Putin transmitted "signals" to Witkoff on what he called the "Ukrainian question" and "received corresponding signals" from the US side.
More about the negotiations would be shared after Witkoff reported to Trump, Ushakov added.
The US president has said Russia could face hefty sanctions or see secondary sanctions imposed against all those who trade with it if it doesn't take steps to end the "horrible war" with Ukraine.
There was immediate comment from the US or Ukraine following the talks.
Ahead of them, Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraine's president, warned that Russia would only make serious moves towards peace if it began to run out of money. He welcomed the threat of tougher US sanctions and tariffs on nations buying Russian oil.
In images shared by Russian outlets, the two men - who have met several times before - were seen smiling and shaking hands in a gilded hall.
Expectations are muted for a settlement by Friday, and Russia has continued its large-scale air attacks on Ukraine despite Trump's threats of sanctions.
Before taking office in January, Trump claimed he would be able to end the war between Russia and Ukraine in a day. He failed and has since grown impatient at a lack of tangible progress, with his rhetoric towards Russia hardening.
"We thought we had [the war] settled numerous times, and then President Putin goes out and starts launching rockets into some city like Kyiv and kills a lot of people in a nursing home or whatever," he said last month.
Three rounds of talks between Ukraine and Russia in Istanbul have failed to bring the war closer to and end, three-and-a-half years after Moscow launched its full-invasion.
Moscow's military and political preconditions for peace remain unacceptable to Kyiv and to its Western partners. The Kremlin has also repeatedly turned down Kyiv's requests for a meeting between Zelensky and Putin.
Meanwhile, the US administration approved $200m (£150m) of additional military sales to Ukraine on Tuesday following a phone call between Zelensky and Trump, in which the two leaders also discussed defence cooperation and drone production.
Ukraine has been using drones to hit Russia's refineries and energy facilities, while Moscow has focused its air attacks on Ukraine's cities.
The Kyiv City Military Administration said the toll of an attack on the city last week rose to 32 after a man died of his injuries. The strike was the deadliest on Kyiv since the start of the invasion.
Ukrainian authorities on Wednesday reported that a Russian attack on a holiday camp in the central region of Zaporizhzhia left two dead and 12 wounded.
"There's no military sense in this attack. It's just cruelty to scare people," Zelensky said.
Avon Fire and Rescue Service volunteers will deliver emergency equipment to Ukraine later this year.
The fire appliances were previously used across Hampshire and the Isle of Wight.
Steve Witkoff is visiting Moscow this week - is it a sign that an agreement between Russia and the US to end the fighting in Ukraine could yet be reached?
Rachel Taylor drove an ambulance full of humanitarian aid on the three-day trip to the Poland-Ukraine border.
The comments come as Trump's deadline for Russia to agree a ceasefire with Ukraine or face sanctions edges closer.
Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.