Save up to 74%
Subscribe to Kiplinger
How do you retire ‘tax-free’? This state doesn’t tax retirement income, has a low median property tax bill, and even offers savings on gas. Are you ready for a move?
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
It’s been said that only two things in life are certain: Death and taxes. So, when choosing where to retire in the U.S., state taxes may come to mind.
While some states have no income taxes, they may have high tax rates in other areas, like sales tax, for example. Knowing a state’s tax landscape (and not just its taxes on retirement income) might give you a better sense of where to save on taxes as a retiree.
And there’s one state that might fit the bill for a “tax-friendly” retirement. Here it is.
Be a smarter, better informed investor.
Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and more - straight to your e-mail.
Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice - straight to your e-mail.
To determine the “most tax-friendly state for retirees,” Kiplinger first ranked each state based on two key factors.
First, only states that don’t tax retirement benefits were chosen. Of those 13 states, the one with the lowest median property taxes paid was selected. Property tax bills were based on the most recent 5-year estimate available from the U.S. Census Bureau.
Note: No matter where you move, federal income taxes still apply.
Mississippi.
Many forms of retirement income are exempt from Mississippi taxes, making it the most tax-friendly state for retirement.
A few examples of tax-exempt income in the Hospitality State include:
Note: Early or excess withdrawals from retirement accounts may still be taxable.
If you receive other types of income, you’ll still pay a flat income tax of 4.4% over $10,000. But that’ll soon change.
Mississippi’s income tax rate is due for a reduction in 2026 to just 4%.
Plus, Mississippi has no estate or inheritance tax, meaning you could pass on more wealth to your heirs.
When you combine that with the state’s overall low median property tax bill of just $1,189 (compared to the national average), you can see how Mississippi earned its ranking as the most tax-friendly U.S. state for retirement.
And there may be one more special tax rule that sweetens the pot.
You may stop paying property taxes in Mississippi at a certain age. How? Well, that depends on your property’s value. Mississippi has a homestead exemption if you meet certain eligibility requirements:
The total benefit of the Mississippi “senior homestead exemption” is $7,500 of assessed value. This means if your property has a value of $75,000 or less, you may be completely exempt from paying property taxes.
However, like all states, there may be a few tax drawbacks to retiring in Mississippi.
Let’s explore a few.
Although Mississippi has some low taxes compared to other states, there are a few areas where the Hospitality State may be less tax-friendly for retirees. For instance:
Despite potentially higher sales taxes on food and other essentials, Mississippi is one of the states with the lowest gas taxes.
So, if you enjoy going for a Sunday drive, you may take advantage of the state’s gas tax rate.
Of course, before you’re ready for retirement in Mississippi, there are other important factors to consider.
While Kiplinger’s ranking considered state tax burdens, you may want to research other key considerations, like cost of living, political climate, and crime rates, before deciding to move.
Overall, it’s important to consider your unique financial and lifestyle needs if considering a move in retirement.
Even though Mississippi is the most tax-friendly state for retiring, it may (or may not be) the most retirement-friendly state for you.
Profit and prosper with the best of Kiplinger's advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and much more. Delivered daily. Enter your email in the box and click Sign Me Up.
Kate is a CPA with experience in audit and technology. As a Tax Writer at Kiplinger, Kate believes that tax and finance news should meet people where they are today, across cultural, educational, and disciplinary backgrounds.
In 2026, Medicare participants will pay more for their health care. Part B costs are expected to rise more than 10%. Here's what you can do.
Travel pros explain how you can afford a European vacation in retirement, despite a weak dollar.
In 2026, Medicare participants will pay more for their health care. Part B costs are expected to rise more than 10%. Here's what you can do.
Travel pros explain how you can afford a European vacation in retirement, despite a weak dollar.
Cash balance plans can significantly boost your retirement strategy if you want a reliable, guaranteed income stream.
Retirees enjoy Spain's Canary Islands, where life can be as hectic or chilled as you like. The one constant will be almost year-round mild weather.
The '120 Minus You Rule' updates an older retirement rule, with a twist. Here's how this approach to retirement portfolio construction can work for you.
Maxed out your 401(k) contributions, but still want to tuck away money for retirement? Here are seven ways you can take advantage of being a super saver.
These retirement withdrawal strategies avoid tax and stock market pitfalls that can eat into your savings.
Retirees might dream of selling their home, downsizing to a smaller one, and investing the extra cash for income, but the profit they pocket is often less than what they hoped for.
Kiplinger is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.