It’s Tuesday, August 5th, and one star sign a friend of Gemini who has been hurt by your actions or words is now open to reconnecting.
There are 12 zodiac signs - Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces - and the horoscopes for each can give you the lowdown on what your future holds, be it in work, your love life, your friends and family or more.
These daily forecasts have been compiled by astrologer Russell Grant, who has been reading star signs for over 50 years. From Aries through to Pisces, here's what today could bring for your horoscope - and what you can do to be prepared.
Acting on impulse means you have forgotten the recent promise you made with yourself to exercise restraint, caution and careful thought. You have to keep reminding yourself of the need to be more careful when making important financial and business decisions. Inappropriate behaviour could hinder your progress.
Have you ever stopped to think about the sacrifices you've made for your career and finances? In your quest to accumulate wealth, have you unintentionally neglected the loved ones who truly matter? Remember, it's the love and support of family and friends that hold far greater value than any amount of money.
The consideration you are now showing towards others increases the likelihood of you receiving forgiveness from someone you have wronged. A friend who has been hurt by your actions or words is now open to reconnecting. This is your chance to begin again with a fresh perspective.
You’re being reminded of the importance of nurturing relationships. Be prepared to invest time and effort into developing a close partnership. By doing so you will decrease worries you may have had about misunderstanding each other and avoid the emotional pain of feeling neglected.
You have high ambitions but are you overreaching in your career and business aims? With you having taken on so much recently, you aren’t in an ideal position now to take decisive action. Giving up on your plans completely would be a mistake but you may have to exercise patience for a short while.
With your thoughts on anything but the conversations going on at the moment, you might unintentionally hurt or offend someone. Or you could pick up something someone says, wrongly. Don’t let a sudden surge of emotion dictate your final judgement. Pause and allow others to clarify their words.
An incident early on will bring a bittersweet sense of nostalgia. There are some things you would rather not remember but you also cherish memories of old friends, distant family members and former colleagues. A simple reminder of someone you haven’t seen for a long time will evoke some powerful emotions.
A solution that hits you the moment you wake up is guaranteed to address a number of workplace challenges. You might wonder why you hadn’t thought about this before. You can now complete tasks efficiently and on schedule, allowing you to spend your evening basking in the satisfaction of your accomplishments.
In order to mitigate the hostility and pessimism coming from a senior colleague you may have to acknowledge they are demanding more than you can currently deliver. Don’t worry about their reaction when you admit to this. Your innate charm and charisma can transform a difficult situation.
A build up of energy in a group situation could spark conflict and confrontation. Not only will there be conflict with others but within yourself too as you strive to understand what is going on in your relationships. Fluctuating emotions surface making it crucial for you to return to a sense of calm and balance.
You hadn’t expected it to be so difficult to get some help from those among your circle. You have little time to manage the numerous tasks being expected of you and to make matters worse, a family issue will arise when someone at home needs you, immediately.
You have gained a lot of knowledge, particularly about the importance of sharing your good fortune. You have put in a tremendous amount of work to achieve financial stability. Now that you can comfortably spend, remember to share with those who have supported you on your journey to success.
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.