Two passengers believed to be injured
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
A ferry belonging to Harbour Cruises Ltd. struck a rock near Point Atkinson off West Vancouver on Sunday morning, leading to a mayday call.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
The Harbour Princess ferry, carrying 58 passengers, hit a rock in Starboat Cove. A distress call was issued at 11:23 a.m. and several emergency services responded, led by the Canadian Coast Guard.
The Joint Rescue Coordination Centre says it dispatched one Coast Guard aircraft and three coast guard boats to the scene.
The tide at the time was eight feet and rising, on a day when low tide was four and a half feet.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sunrise will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
The vessel did not take on water and was escorted back to its Coal Harbour berth, where the passengers were off-loaded. It is believed two passengers were injured, with one person transferred to the care of the B.C. Ambulance service.
The Harbour Princess is described by Harbour Cruises as its most modern vessel that has dining seating for 180 people spread over two interior decks. It is 150 feet long and can carry up to 275 standing guests.
dcarrigg@postmedia.com
With a file from Canadian Press
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.