Two-Spirit, South Asian and Chinese voices lead the way as organizers seek stable funding for future viability of parade
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
Thousands of people and performers gathered in downtown Vancouver on Sunday for the 2025 Pride Parade — a celebration of diversity and inclusion that wound its way from Pacific Boulevard, near B.C. Place, to the West End.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
For Angit Modaher, a program coordinator with Sher Vancouver, which supports the South Asian LGBTQ+ community, marching this year was personal.
“Since moving to Canada from the U.K., I’ve been really close to Sher Vancouver. It’s been a saving point in terms of having a queer community in Vancouver,” Modaher said.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sunrise will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
Pride remains a vital platform for visibility in communities where queerness is often hidden, she said.
“We’re just trying to be more vocal. You know, representation really matters in the South Asian community,” she said.
“Queer South Asians exist — and we’re here. It’s so important to have that openness, because a lot of people hide,” she said.
For Dennis Lu of the Vancouver chapter of the Chinese Rainbow Network, a Mandarin speaking LGBTQ+ non-profit, marching in the parade was a way to unite Mandarin-speaking queer communities.
Lu said his work with the network was to create “a big umbrella for people of Chinese descent.”
“We’re already outsiders from the country,” Lu said. “I’m trying to let people know, ‘Our society is there for you.’”
Lu invited Richmond’s Paragon Athletic Association to contribute a lion and dragon dance performance as part of the CRN’s parade group.
“Lion dancing and dragon dancing (is a) very big part of the Chinese culture,” said Anton Chan, vice-president of operations at Paragon Athletic.
“They wanted to get the pride out and get the lines out there, as well, to represent the culture and the rainbow nation,” Chan said.
“We’re just happy to be part of the culture,” he said.
That sense of impact and the work to claim space was echoed by Travis Angus of the Greater Vancouver Native Cultural Two-Spirit Society. The group, which organized a separate Two-spirit event for the past five years, sees participation as a reclamation of identity lost through colonialism.
“We’ve been realizing that there’s so many negatives that are pulling all of the gay community apart, segregating us into different categories, basically. So it’s looking at being able to really unite everybody,” Angus said of the decision to pause their own event and join the parade.
“Two-Spirit started years and years ago and belonged to the long houses,” Angus said. “When the churches moved in, they wiped us out from our communities … they figured we were just queer or gay because we had both spirits.”
“So they pushed us out and the LGBTQ+ community took us in.”
But acceptance hasn’t always been easy, even within Indigenous communities, according to Angus.
“Not every Indigenous group accepts the Two-Spirit people,” Angus said. “It’s been a roller-coaster, but people are becoming more aware now.”
This year’s parade took place against the backdrop of growing financial and political uncertainty for Vancouver’s Pride parade. Organizers have warned that without stable funding, future parades may be at risk.
“Being out, it’s an amazing feeling,” Modaher said. “It’d be heartbreaking if it was cancelled.”
“A lot of people who come to the parades, they don’t think about who’s giving them money. They just want the joy to be there,” Modaher said.
Prime Minister Mark Carney made a surprise appearance at the parade after meeting with Premier David Eby and officials from the Vancouver port earlier Sunday.
Carney marched for about a kilometre along the route and said the Pride parade represents the “essence of Canada,” celebrating diversity in a “very positive way.”
Carney was greeted by loud cheers from parade-goers lining the sidewalks along the route, and he zigzagged across the street several times to meet and greet supporters as his security detail followed closely.
The prime minister at one point was handed a microphone by a drag queen who thanked him for coming, and Carney said the parade was “the best of Canada.”
With a file from Canadian Press
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.