A big game hunter has been gored to death by the buffalo he was hunting for a trophy kill in South Africa.
Asher Watkins, 52, who made his millions trading ranches in the US, was on a £7,500 organised hunting safari last week with Coenraad Vermaak Safaris - stalking a 200 stone buffalo through the bush.
But the hunter became the hunted when the buffalo launched a fatal charge, killing him near instantly at the 50,000-acre Bambisana concession. It comes after an octopus 'climbs out of aquarium tank' and 'tries to eat boy, 6,' in front of his mum.
Locals refer to the buffalo found in the region, Cape buffalo, as the "Black Death" thanks to their record of causing around 200 fatalities each year and for killing more game hunters than lions, rhinos or crocodiles.
From his social media page, it's clear that Watkins was an avid hunter, and believed it was essential to preserve wildlife. His page shows him holding various trophies he'd collected over the years, including mountain lion and several deer.
It's unknown why the buffalo turned on the trackers. It is said to have become aggressive before running the 52-year-old down.
Speaking for CV Safaris, Hunter Hans Vermaak, told The Sun: "It is with deep sadness and heavy hearts we confirm the tragic death of our client and friend Asher Watkins from the USA.
"On Sunday, while on a hunting safari with us in South Africa’s Limpopo Province, Asher was fatally injured in a sudden and unprovoked attack by an unwounded buffalo.
"He was tracking it together with one of our professional hunters and one of our trackers. This is a devastating incident and our hearts go out to his loved ones.
"We are doing everything we can to support the family members who are here with us and those back in the United States as they navigate this tragic loss."
His former partner and teen daughter have been informed of his passing. One of the dad's close friends said: "He spent every spare moment he could with Savannah and shared his life with her.
"Nobody could love a daughter more than he did. She will be broken to lose Asher, who was her best friend as well as her dad."
Members of his family - his mum, Gwen, brother Amon, and stepdad Tony - were given the news at the luxury lodge where they had all been staying.
He earned his fortune with his company, the Texas-based Watkins Ranch Group, which sells luxury ranches that can cost as much as £30million.
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.