Singer and dancer Tate McRae plays first of back-to-back shows in Vancouver
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
Reviews and recommendations are unbiased and products are independently selected. Postmedia may earn an affiliate commission from purchases made through links on this page.
Reviews and recommendations are unbiased and products are independently selected. Postmedia may earn an affiliate commission from purchases made through links on this page.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Tate McRae is one of the hottest brands in Canadian pop music at the moment. Opening night of the Canadian leg of the Miss Possessive tour at Vancouver’s Rogers Arena showed why she’s where she is.
From the opening fog and flashing lights, this was one of the most social media savvy stadium shows on tour today.
Get top headlines and gossip from the world of celebrity and entertainment.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sun Spots will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
In fact, the show sort of began before you even entered as the singer gazed down at you from giant billboards hawking Neutrogena, a product the 22 year-old Albertan is definitely in no need of at this particular time in her career trajectory. Beauty to a Science proclaimed another ad from the campaign bordering the stage.
There was indeed science at play. The concert was a calculated to the decimal to deliver maximum delight for fans.
The technical savvy on display was slick enough that Disney should take notice. It used to be musicians from the Mouse factory were the ones you could depend on to have the dancing, singing, acting and other chops to carry a whole show focused on them. McRae is cut from that same cloth, but from Calgary.
Every facet of the performance made effective use of blocking, strategically-placed cameras and back lighting to insure that there wasn’t a single moment in the evening that you couldn’t capture a perfect selfie with a multi-story McRae pouting at you. Estimating the data drain from a performance like this could overwhelm ChatGPT, but for the ecstatic fans capturing the moment in history repeatedly was part of the sheer joy in the room.
Having the date and time code flash up on screen added that element of proof that you were legit there too. Very nice touch that, as were the mentions of tour support for both the Trevor Project and the Global Fund For Women.
In four acts and 21 tunes, fans sang along to every period in McRae’s relatively short career. There was a distinctly first show vibe to the choruses verging on screams in songs such as Guilty Conscience, a dramatic Siren Sounds and Like I Do and complete abandonment of melody for ear-shattering shrieks during Exes.
Without doubt, that single is the best song in her set, with the rockier She’s All I Wanna Be gunning for second place.
But, for all of McRae’s dance chops, her shows rely more on connecting with the crowd during moments such as when she heel struts down the runway to strike a pose while the impressively physical backing dancers drop another athletic routine around her, or when she arrived at the separate B stage.
There, she played a succession of ballads such as Nostalgia and You Broke Me First as well as diving back to the YouTube channel songs she posted weekly starting at age 13. A surprising number of those in the room knew all of these songs as well as the newer megahits and doubtlessly will be clicking back on songs such as That Way and One Last Time in the next few days.
For today’s artists who reach their listeners via avenues such as this, those original tracks keep on delivering long after the latest single has left the commercial charts. It’s the new music biz model breaking talents everywhere and McRae certainly has mastered the method.
As to her dance chops, they are less a part of the performance than her racy videos might suggest. Wishing that she had been free to leave the mic behind on occasion to just cut loose seems unfair to the design of the experience.
Miss Possessive is about packaging the moment in time. At this moment, that means giving people all the songs they want to hear and this show does that with bells on. It will be interesting to see what the future holds as McRae’s song catalogue racks up more variety than it presently showcases.
Her collaboration with Morgan Wallen on What I Want might be a strong indication of what might come next.
Tate McRae Miss Possessive set list
The show includes four acts and 22 tunes with many video and musical interludes. You’ll even get a genuine extended guitar solo here and there.
Act 1
Act 2
Act. 3
Act. 4
Encore
sderdeyn@postmedia.com
Love concerts, but can't make it to the venue? Stream live shows and events from your couch with VEEPS, a music-first streaming service now operating in Canada. Click here for an introductory offer of 30% off. Explore upcoming concerts and the extensive archive of past performances.
Love concerts, but can't make it to the venue? Stream live shows and events from your couch with VEEPS, a music-first streaming service now operating in Canada. Click here for an introductory offer of 30% off. Explore upcoming concerts and the extensive archive of past performances.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.