This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
President Trump on Sunday reacted positively upon learning actress Sydney Sweeney is a registered Republican, adding that he now finds her controversial American Eagle ad campaign to be "fantastic."
President Trump on Sunday reacted positively upon learning actress Sydney Sweeney is a registered Republican, adding that he now finds her viral American Eagle ad campaign to be "fantastic."
"She's a registered Republican?" Trump said in response to a reporter's question about his thoughts on her political affiliation. "Oh, now I love her ad."
SYDNEY SWEENEY’S IMAGE IS ‘FORTIFIED BUNKER’ DESPITE AMERICAN EAGLE AD, MAGA-STYLE HAT UPROAR: EXPERT
The President added, "You'd be surprised at how many people are Republicans. That's what I wouldn't have known, but I'm glad you told me that. If Sydney Sweeney is a registered Republican, I think her ad is fantastic."
President Trump on Sunday reacted positively upon learning actress Sydney Sweeney is a registered Republican, adding that he now finds her viral American Eagle ad campaign to be "fantastic." (Pool)
The "Euphoria" actress' voter registration has surfaced as she faces backlash for her controversial American Eagle jeans campaign. Since June 2024, she has been registered with the Republican Party of Florida in Monroe County, the New York Post reported, citing public voter records.
Earlier this week, American Eagle released their latest campaign with the actress, titled "Sydney Sweeney Has Great Jeans." Following the launch, there was a mix of reactions on social media.
Some critics said the billboard’s play on "genes" versus "jeans" echoed eugenics-era slogans, though supporters argued it was a lighthearted marketing gimmick.
AMERICAN EAGLE FIRES BACK AT CRITICS AFTER SYDNEY SWEENEY CAMPAIGN SPARKS ONLINE BACKLASH
Some dubbed the campaign as "tone-deaf" due to the alleged racial undertones, while others have praised the actress for killing "woke" advertising.
Sydney Sweeney is seen leaving 'The Plaza' Hotel on June 04, 2025 in New York City.  (Jose Perez/Bauer-Griffin/GC Images)
In a promo video posted to the brand's Instagram, the 27-year-old walked toward an AE billboard featuring her and the tagline "Sydney Sweeney Has Great Genes." Sweeney crossed out "Genes" and replaced it with "Jeans" before walking away.
JD VANCE SOUNDS OFF ON SYDNEY SWEENEY AD UPROAR, MOCKS LEFT'S 'NAZI' STRATEGY
On Friday, Vice President JD Vance had some fun at the expense of the left over its wild response to the American Eagle ad campaign featuring actress Sydney Sweeney.
Vice President JD Vance speaks at the Metallus Inc. plant, Monday, July 28, 2025, in Canton, Ohio.  (AP Photo/Lauren Leigh Bacho)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
"My political advice to the Democrats is continue to tell everybody who thinks Sydney Sweeney is attractive is a Nazi. That appears to be their actual strategy," Vance joked during Friday's appearance on the "Ruthless" podcast.
Fox News Digital's Janelle Ash and Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report.
Sophia Compton is a Digital Production Assistant at Fox News Digital. Sophia was previously a business reporter covering finance, energy and tourism and has experience as a TV news producer. She graduated with a journalism degree in 2021 from the University of Hawaii at Manoa.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.