We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free.
So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners.
It's excellent if the crowds are light — but that's a big if.
Many or all of the products on this page are from partners who compensate us when you click to or take an action on their website, but this does not influence our evaluations or ratings. Our opinions are our own.
How is this page expert verified?
NerdWallet's content is fact-checked for accuracy, timeliness and relevance. It undergoes a thorough review process involving writers and editors to ensure the information is as clear and complete as possible.
Lead Writer/Spokesperson
Sally French is co-host of the Smart Travel podcast and a writer on NerdWallet's travel team. Before joining NerdWallet as a travel rewards expert in 2020, she wrote about travel and credit cards for The New York Times and its sibling site, Wirecutter.
Outside of work, she loves fitness, and she competes in both powerlifting and weightlifting (she can deadlift more than triple bodyweight). Naturally, her travels always involve a fitness component, including a week of cycling up the coastline of Vietnam and a camping trip to the Arctic Circle, where she biked over the sea ice. Other adventures have included hiking 25 miles in one day through Italy's Cinque Terre and climbing the 1,260 steps to Tiger Cave Temple in Krabi, Thailand.
She lives in San Francisco.
Managing Editor
Claire Tsosie is a managing editor for the travel rewards team at NerdWallet. She started her career on the credit cards team as a writer. Her work has been featured by Forbes, USA Today and The Associated Press.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Orlando International Airport (MCO) Terminal C’s Plaza Premium Lounge is big, bright and ambitious — but it doesn’t always live up to the promise. Located in the airport’s newest Terminal C, this 10,000-square-foot space was designed with thoughtful amenities including luxury bathrooms.
The lounge's popularity is also its biggest drawback. When it’s packed, it can feel more crowded than the Magic Kingdom in the summer. Here’s what travelers should know before deciding whether this Priority Pass-eligible lounge is worth a stop.
The Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
The Plaza Premium Lounge is located airside in Terminal C, on Level 2 near Gate 241. This terminal serves airlines including Aer Lingus, British Airways, Emirates, Icelandair, JetBlue and Lufthansa.
The lounge isn’t connected airside to Terminals A or B, so lounge hopping isn’t practical unless you're flying out of Terminal C.
Access to the Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO is available via:
Priority Pass (offered as a complimentary perk on many travel credit cards).
Plaza Premium Lounge Pass Americas, a lounge membership product that includes U.S. locations.
Day passes (prices vary by demand, but hover around $70).
on American Express' website
on American Express' website
$695.
$395.
$650.
Priority Pass Select membership. Enrollment required. No restaurants.
Terms apply.
Priority Pass Select membership. No restaurants.
Priority Pass Select membership. Enrollment required. No restaurants.
Terms apply.
This lounge is designed with a green and blue color palette intended to reflect Central Florida’s springs and waterways. Maximalist wallpaper and large art pieces evoke the spirit of Florida.
The Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
Floor-to-ceiling windows overlook the tarmac on one side (great for plane spotting) and Terminal C’s Palm Court concourse on the other.
Places to sit range from custom-designed couches to semi-private workspaces with international charging ports. There’s also a dedicated quiet zone.
Complimentary luggage storage is convenient and low-key necessary, given the lounge’s usual crowds.
The Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
One of the lounge’s most charming features is an interactive family zone, where touch screens on the wall make for a fun activity. The interactive “Tasty Turtle Treats” game, which you play by standing in front of a giant screen, is a must-try (at least if you’re around age 10).
It's LEED Certified, meaning the space was built to meet certain sustainability standards.
Hot food at the Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
Compared to the majority of other Priority Pass lounges in the U.S., the Plaza Premium Lounge’s food selection is a cut above.
The Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
Items at the buffet feature globally inspired options, including:
Cuban-style ground beef.
Chicken and vegetable stir fry.
Assorted pasta dishes.
Pastries, including cakes and cookies.
Pastries at the Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
Then there is a separate area where you can order items that are made fresh for an additional fee. These include cheeseburgers, chicken tenders and fries.
Adults can sample cocktails curated by the lounge’s mixologists — including three drink recipes exclusive to Plaza Premium guests. But aside from house beers and wines, most alcohol costs extra.
For what it’s worth, drinks were pretty affordable by airport standards, with some cocktails under $10.
The bar at the Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
There are showers (which cost extra) and bathrooms, which Plaza Premium’s marketing materials promote as “luxury washrooms with spa-like shower facilities.”
But I can’t vouch for them. Every time I’ve gone to the lounge, there’s been a line down the hallway just to use them, so I never have.
The Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
I was too impatient to wait — especially with no-line bathrooms in the public areas of the terminal — and felt awkward blocking the hallway as people passed with plates of food.
The Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
Here’s the catch: this lounge gets crowded. Usually, the dining area has the energy of a cheap hotel breakfast buffet right before closing.
It’s not just the buffet area that’s packed, but seating throughout the lounge. During one visit, a traveler politely asked to share a cocktail table with me because there were no other spots available (I said yes).
Arrive at the wrong time, and you may end up inhaling a rice bowl and some cookies while standing.
I’ve never seen the lounge use waitlists to manage crowds, though I think it might help. A spokesperson for Plaza Premium confirmed that they do not have a formal waitlist system in place, but is currently exploring options to better manage capacity.
The Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
Although they sometimes post signs outside saying the lounge is full and seats are not guaranteed, they keep letting people in.
The Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
The Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO is a legitimate upgrade over most other Priority Pass lounges in the U.S., and it’s definitely the best of MCO’s Priority Pass lounges. The food is good, but only stick around if crowds are light.
And it's probably not worth paying for a day pass. Lounges are supposed to be a respite from the hectic terminal.
Terminal C at MCO is already calm and well-designed. Ironically, it’s the Plaza Premium Lounge that feels more chaotic.
The Plaza Premium Lounge at MCO. (Photo by Sally French/NerdWallet)
I’ll generally take the free food over paying for a meal. But if I see a mob outside the Plaza Premium check-in desk, I head to Sunshine Diner or Wine Bar George instead. Then I kill time making pressed pennies and taking photos with Hagrid’s motorbike replica at the Universal Orlando store instead.
(Top photo by Sally French)
You want a travel credit card that prioritizes what’s important to you. Here are some of the best travel credit cards of 2025:
Flexibility, point transfers and a large bonus: Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card
No annual fee: Wells Fargo Autograph® Card
Flat-rate travel rewards: Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card
Bonus travel rewards and high-end perks: Chase Sapphire Reserve®
Luxury perks: The Platinum Card® from American Express
Business travelers: Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card
on Citibank's application
1xEarn 1 Loyalty Point for every 1 eligible AAdvantage® mile earned from purchases.
70,000Earn 70,000 American Airlines AAdvantage® bonus miles after spending $7,000 within the first 3 months of account opening.
on Chase's website
1x-8xEarn 8x points on all purchases through Chase Travel℠, including The Edit℠ and 4x points on flights and hotels booked direct. Plus, earn 3x points on dining worldwide & 1x points on all other purchases.
100,000 Points + $500 Travel CreditEarn 100,000 bonus points + $500 Chase Travel℠ promo credit after you spend $5,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening.
Download the app
Disclaimer: 
NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date.
            This information may be different than what you see when you visit a
            financial institution, service provider or specific product's
            site. All financial products, shopping products and services are
            presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review
            the financial institution's Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified
            offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit
            score or information from your credit report, please contact
            TransUnion® directly.
NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539
NMLS Consumer Access

|

Licenses and Disclosures
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #60DBO-74812
Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services,
            Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  

Insurance Licenses
Fundera, Inc. NMLS ID# 1240038
NMLS Consumer Access
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to the
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #603L288
NerdWallet has engaged Atomic Invest LLC (“Atomic”), an SEC-registered
        investment adviser, to bring you the opportunity to open investment
        advisory accounts (Automated Investing Account and/or Treasury Account)
        with Atomic. NerdWallet receives compensation of up to 0.85% of assets
        under management annualized, payable monthly, for each referred client
        who opens an Atomic account and a percentage of free cash interest
        earned by clients, which creates a conflict of interest. Brokerage
        services for Atomic are provided by Atomic Brokerage LLC ("Atomic
        Brokerage"), member of FINRA/SIPC and an affiliate of Atomic, which creates a conflict of interest. See details
        about Atomic, in their Form CRS, Form ADV Part 2A and Privacy Policy. See details about Atomic Brokerage in their Form CRS,
General Disclosures, fee schedule, and FINRA’s BrokerCheck.
You also can open a Cash Account offered by Atomic Brokerage which
        allows you to earn interest on your cash through a cash sweep program.
        See important Cash Account disclosures here.
Neither Atomic Invest nor Atomic Brokerage, nor any of their affiliates
        is a bank. Investments in securities: Not FDIC Insured, Not Bank
        Guaranteed, May Lose Value. Investing involves risk, including the
        possible loss of principal. Before investing, consider your investment
        objectives and the fees and expenses charged.
Images are for illustrative purposes only.
NerdWallet™ | 4150 N Drinkwater Blvd, Suite 200, Scottsdale, AZ 85251