Michelle Wilson, 52, from Southport, Merseyside, says the parasail operator pressed himself against her and groped her mid-air during what should have been a thrilling ride.
Michelle had planned to go on a tandem parasail flight with a friend, but was told it was too windy in Tunisia that day and they would have to fly separately, each accompanied by an operator.
She said her friend went up first “and had a great time, with no problems”, noting there was plenty of distance between her friend and the operator.
However, Michelle’s own experience was very different.
The mum-of-three said:
“I could feel the back of my bikini bottoms being pulled and he was pulling the strap. He must have been tightening the harness to get me closer. His legs straddled around me, he had one hand up on the parachute, the other wasn’t. Then I felt him touch my leg.”
She continued: “He was groping me and moving back and forth into me and talking to me in Arabic. I felt him pressing against me. I kept arching my back.
"I felt violated and dirty and was scared. He was only a young lad, maybe around 20. It was a horrible experience and I was really scared. I felt helpless hanging in the air.”
Michelle burst into tears after landing and reported the incident to the water sports centre’s manager before going to the local police.
The £6,000 easyJet package holiday had been booked for Michelle, her 17-year-old daughter, her 16-year-old twin boys, and her daughter’s 17-year-old friend.
However, she said she felt unable to enjoy the rest of the trip after what happened.
She added: “As women you expect a bit of banter from men in these countries, but this wasn’t banter, it was a sexual assault.”
Michelle believes her alleged attacker has since been arrested, and that both her insurance firm and the Foreign Office are now involved in the case.
An easyJet spokesperson said:
“The safety and wellbeing of our customers is a priority, and we are continuing to support Ms Wilson. We are also liaising closely with our hotel partner to look into the reports.”
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.