Marex (MRX), a global financial services platform, has become the first clearing firm to integrate Kinexys Digital Payments, a blockchain-based settlement system developed by JPMorgan (JPM), through a collaboration with Brevan Howard Digital, the company said in a press release on Wednesday.
The initiative is aimed at modernizing payment infrastructure and reducing settlement risk by leveraging programmable, always-on digital ledger technology, the company said.
Kinexys is part of JPMorgan’s broader push into digital assets and allows for near-instant settlement through blockchain deposit accounts, marking a significant shift from legacy rails to 24/7 digital clearing mechanisms.
Brevan Howard Digital, which joined the Kinexys network in 2024, has been collaborating with partners to develop a broader ecosystem for blockchain-based financial services.
Marex’s adoption of the platform underscores its commitment to streamlining operations and enhancing client service via next-gen infrastructure.
“Kinexys by JPMorgan is the next generation of financial market infrastructure,” said Terry Hollingsworth, Marex’s global head of futures and over-the-counter (OTC) clearing sales, in the release.
Akshika Gupta, global head of client solutions at Kinexys, said "24/7 settlements represents a significant milestone  in the advancement of financial market infrastructure,” reaffirming the firm’s role in pushing forward institutional-grade blockchain solutions.
Read more: Jamie Dimon Says JPMorgan to Get More Involved With Stablecoins
Will Canny is an experienced market reporter with a demonstrated history of working in the financial services industry. He's now covering the crypto beat as a finance reporter at CoinDesk. He owns more than $1,000 of SOL.
“AI Boost” indicates a generative text tool, typically an AI chatbot, contributed to the article. In each and every case, the article was edited, fact-checked and published by a human. Read more about CoinDesk's AI Policy.
More For You
Ripple’s Partnership With BDACS Pays Off as XRP Support Goes Live at Korean Crypto Custodian
BDACS launches XRP custody for institutions in Korea, deepening Ripple partnership and boosting regulatory alignment for XRP’s global institutional use.
What to know:
About
Contact