The race to build the next generation of global giants is on.
While public markets get most of the spotlight, private companies are quietly building massive valuations and shaping the future of industries.
This visualization, via Visual Capitalist's Marcus Lu, ranks the world’s 50 most valuable private companies in 2025, highlighting emerging powerhouses from different countries and sectors.
The data for this visualization comes from CB Insights. It ranks private companies globally by their most recent reported valuations.
Note: Scale AI’s recent deal with Meta was not captured in the source dataset. Scale is now valued at roughly $29 billion, which would place it 14th in this ranking.
AI startups are increasingly populating the top 10, with OpenAI in third ($300 billion), Anthropic in seventh ($62 billion), and xAI in eighth ($50 billion). All three of these companies have produced some of the world’s smartest AI models in recent years.
Further down the ranking, we can identify Safe Superintelligence ($30 billion), which was created by former employees of OpenAI and Anthropic, and Scale AI, in which Meta recently acquired a 49% stake.
This deal wasn’t captured in the source dataset, but it means that Scale is now valued at $29 billion, which would bump it up to 14th place.
Finally, there are many companies that have AI applications, but not necessarily as their core product. This includes names like Databricks (a data analytics platform), Grammarly (uses generative AI to power its writing assistant), and Colossal (a de-extinction biotech company).
If you enjoyed today’s post, check out History’s Most Valuable Companies vs the Magnificent 7 on Voronoi, the new app from Visual Capitalist.
Assistance and Requests: Contact Us
Tips: tips@zerohedge.com
General: info@zerohedge.com
Legal: legal@zerohedge.com
Advertising: Contact Us
Abuse/Complaints: abuse@zerohedge.com
Make sure to read our "How To [Read/Tip Off] Zero Hedge Without Attracting The
                        Interest Of [Human Resources/The Treasury/Black
                        Helicopters]" Guide
It would be very wise of you to study our privacy policy and our (non)policy on conflicts / full disclosure.Here's our Cookie Policy.
How to report offensive comments
Notice on Racial Discrimination.