Sentebale became the focus of a public dispute after its chair used an interview with Sky News to accuse Prince Harry of harassment and bullying. His spokesperson said the report into those claims "falls troublingly short".
Wednesday 6 August 2025 04:30, UK
Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player
The Charity Commission has found no evidence of bullying or harassment at a charity set up by Prince Harry.
But it has found that an internal dispute at Sentebale "severely impacted the charity's reputation".
Earlier this year, its chair, Dr Sophie Chandauka, used an interview with Sky News' Sunday Morning With Trevor Phillips to accuse the Duke of Sussex of "harassment and bullying at scale".
Her comments followed the departure of the prince and several others from the organisation in March.
They had asked her to step down, alleging it was in the "best interest of the charity".
Dr Chandauka told Sky News that Harry had "authorised the release of a damaging piece of news to the outside world" without informing her or Sentebale directors.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex declined to offer any formal response.
'Strong perception of ill-treatment'
The Charity Commission said it was reporting after a "damaging internal dispute emerged" and has "criticised all parties to the dispute for allowing it to play out publicly".
That "severely impacted the charity's reputation and risked undermining public trust in charities more generally", it said.
But it found no evidence of "widespread or systemic bullying or harassment, including misogyny or misogynoiri at the charity".
Nevertheless, it did acknowledge the "strong perception of ill-treatment felt by a number of parties to the dispute and the impact this may have had on them personally".
It also found no evidence related to claims of "over-reach" by "either the chair or the Duke of Sussex as patron".
Read more:Clintons subpoenaed in Epstein probeFirst man to be executed with defibrillator fitted
'Confusion exacerbated tensions'
But it was critical of the charity's "lack of clarity in delegations to the chair, which allowed for misunderstandings to occur".
And it has "identified a lack of clarity around role descriptions and internal policies as the primary cause for weaknesses in the charity's management".
That "confusion exacerbated tensions, which culminated in a dispute and multiple resignations of trustees and both founding patrons".
Be the first to get Breaking News
Install the Sky News app for free
Harry: Report falls troublingly short
A spokesperson for Prince Harry said it was "unsurprising" that the commission had announced "no findings of wrongdoing in relation to Sentebale's co-founder and former patron, Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex".
They added: "Despite all that, their report falls troublingly short in many regards, primarily the fact that the consequences of the current chair's actions will not be borne by her, but by the children who rely on Sentebale's support."
They said the prince will "now focus on finding new ways to continue supporting the children of Lesotho and Botswana".
Dr Chandauka said: "I appreciate the Charity Commission for its conclusions which confirm the governance concerns I raised privately in February 2025."
But she added: "The unexpected adverse media campaign that was launched by those who resigned on 24 March 2025 has caused incalculable damage and offers a glimpse of the unacceptable behaviours displayed in private."