Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.
Advertisement
Robert P. Crease is a professor of philosophy at Stony Brook University in New York. His most recent book is The Leak (2022).
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
Luis Alvarez designed a special Geiger counter (pictured) to detect certain types of radioactivity. Credit: Bettmann/Getty
Collisions: A Physicist’s Journey from Hiroshima to the Death of the Dinosaurs Alec Nevala-Lee W. W. Norton (2025)
Physicist Luis Alvarez (1911–88) led such a vivid life that he is a biographer’s dream. Agile and daring, Alvarez was also pitiless, egotistical and abrasive. He flew in one of the aeroplanes that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, Japan, on 6 August 1945. He engaged publicly with controversial topics, including whether unidentified flying objects (UFOs) existed, and who might have been behind the assassination of US president John F. Kennedy on 22 November 1963. He also came up with a persuasive explanation for what killed the dinosaurs.
Nuclear-weapons risks are back — and we need to act like it
Nuclear-weapons risks are back — and we need to act like it
The challenge, for a biographer, is how to describe the science that drove Alvarez. As revealed in Collisions, Alec Nevala-Lee, who has written novels as well as biographies, is up to the task. Beyond Alvarez’s personality and his moments in the public eye, Nevala-Lee expertly conveys his path through an extraordinary era of US particle physics — a turbulent time that required courage, luck and skill.
The dramatic opening scene, at a California shooting range in 1970, is unforgettable. The only person charged with Kennedy’s assassination fired his gun from behind the president, but a video showed Kennedy’s head snapping backwards. To some people, this suggested that a second gunman fired from the front, and that a conspiracy was involved. Alvarez realized that this need not be the case.
From a physics perspective, Alvarez thought, a bullet fired from behind could have shattered Kennedy’s skull in such a way that the momentum of the resulting jet of bone fragments pushed the head back. Alvarez enlisted a sharpshooter to fire bullets at a series of melons to test this idea, which the results supported. Nevala-Lee manages to capture the drama, physics, gruesomeness and political importance of this episode, all at once.
Alvarez owed his Hispanic surname to his grandfather, an immigrant from Spain. After earning his PhD in 1936 at the University of Chicago, Illinois, he went to work for accelerator builder Ernest Lawrence at the University of California, Berkeley. Four years later, after the start of the Second World War, Alvarez went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Cambridge to work on radar technology. The knowledge he gained allowed him to help develop the first system that enabled pilots to land during limited visibility using only instrumentation. Alvarez also designed pressure gauges to measure the strength of explosives, earning him a seat on one of the planes bound for Hiroshima.
Alvarez witnessed the bombing of Hiroshima, Japan, from a plane in August 1945.Credit: US Government/Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory
The book’s description of Alvarez’s flight to Hiroshima and back is haunting: meeting the other planes over Iwo Jima, seeing the flash of white light as the bomb exploded and the telltale N-shaped pulse on the oscilloscope screen and experiencing the first shock wave followed by a second one, reflected from the ground.
In the 1950s, after returning to Berkeley as a physics professor, Alvarez developed bubble chambers — instruments that recorded on film the tracks of particles created by particle accelerators. This work earned him the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1968. His research contributed to substantial changes in US high-energy physics, which transformed from being a field with a few creative individuals to one involving large teams working in industrial facilities.
Many scientists might find making discoveries an end in itself, but Nevala-Lee identifies Alvarez’s particular talent of using inventions to unlock practical puzzles that seem far from physics. “If someone thinks of a key,” Alvarez said, “I can fit it into something.”
or
Nature 644, 328-329 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02512-y
The author declares no competing interests.
Nuclear-weapons risks are back — and we need to act like it
When physicists strove for peace: past lessons for our uncertain times
The science of Oppenheimer: meet the Oscar-winning movie’s specialist advisers
How a small nuclear war would transform the entire planet
How to avoid nuclear war in an era of AI and misinformation
Lethal AI weapons are here: how can we control them?
George E. Smith obituary: co-inventor of the charge coupled device, which ushered in an era of digital images
Obituary 07 AUG 25
Monoclonal antibodies revolutionized biomedical science and health care
Editorial 07 AUG 25
Protect Palestinian archaeological sites during war
Correspondence 05 AUG 25
Nuclear-weapons risks are back — and we need to act like it
Comment 06 AUG 25
Kinetic turbulence drives MHD equilibrium change via 3D reconnection
Article 06 AUG 25
High-accuracy laser spectroscopy of 
              
                
              
              $${{\bf{H}}}_{{\bf{2}}}^{{\boldsymbol{+}}}$$
              
                
                  
                    H
                  
                  
                    2
                  
                  
                    +
                  
                
              
             and the proton–electron mass ratio
Article 06 AUG 25
The peer-review crisis: how to fix an overloaded system
News Feature 06 AUG 25
Sexual harassment is rife at US Antarctic research bases, fresh survey finds
News 06 AUG 25
Nuclear-weapons risks are back — and we need to act like it
Comment 06 AUG 25
AI4I is seeking to appoint the Founding Heads of its Research & Development Labs.
Turin (IT)
The Italian Institute of Artificial Intelligence for Industry (AI4I)
Title:  Associate or Senior Editor (Thermoelectrics & Thermal Engineering) Location: Shanghai, Nanjing, Beijing, Madrid, Milan, New York, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Nanjing, Beijing, Madrid, Milan, New York, Jersey City, or Washington DC
Springer Nature Ltd
Job Title:  Deputy Editor, Communications Health   Locations: New York, Jersey City, Shanghai or Beijing (Hybrid working model)  Application Deadli...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Postdoctoral fellow to study multimodal omics integration in neurodegeneration.
Baltimore, Maryland
Johns Hopkins University - BrainSigns Lab
Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Reviews Earth & Environment Organization: Nature Portfolio Locations: New York or Shanghai -Hybrid Workin...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Nuclear-weapons risks are back — and we need to act like it
When physicists strove for peace: past lessons for our uncertain times
The science of Oppenheimer: meet the Oscar-winning movie’s specialist advisers
How a small nuclear war would transform the entire planet
How to avoid nuclear war in an era of AI and misinformation
Lethal AI weapons are here: how can we control them?
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Nature
                    
                    (Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited