Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.
Advertisement
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
Attendees at a meeting of a US Senate appropriations committee on 31 July: from left, Patty Murray, a Democrat from Washington state; Susan Collins, a Republican from Maine; and Mitch McConnell, a Republican from Kentucky.Credit: Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call via Getty
A US Senate committee has voted to reject Republican President Donald Trump’s plan to cut the 2026 budget of the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) by 40% and to collapse its 27 institutes and centres into 8. Instead, Republicans and Democrats on the committee endorsed maintaining the biomedical agency’s structure and increasing its funding by US$400 million, or about 1%.
The details, presented in a bill released today by the committee, will probably change before the bill is signed into law. But the initial figure for the NIH, discussed at a meeting yesterday, offers yet another hint that the US Congress, which controls government spending, does not support Trump’s desire to slash US science. (Earlier this month, another Senate committee said it wanted to keep the budget for the US National Science Foundation relatively flat despite Trump’s call for a 57% reduction.)
“Given the alternative, the Senate’s recommendation of a $400-million increase for NIH is an indication the agency still has support on Capitol Hill,” says Jennifer Zeitzer, director of public affairs at the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology in Rockville, Maryland. “A 40% cut would have been devastating, so this is a good outcome in a tough year.”
The bill now faces several challenges. First, the full Senate must pass it. Then, the lower chamber of Congress, the US House of Representatives, will pass its own version, and the two bodies must come together to agree on a single bill that Trump is willing to sign.
Judge rules against NIH grant cuts — and calls them discriminatory
Judge rules against NIH grant cuts — and calls them discriminatory
The bill might also change if legislators introduce amendments before it’s sent to Trump’s desk. For example, Dick Durbin, a Democratic senator for Illinois, tried at the meeting yesterday to add a provision to reinstate billions of dollars in health-research funding that had been frozen or terminated by the Trump administration because projects — including some on COVID-19 — did not align with agency priorities.
The amendment failed in a vote that fell along party lines, with 14 Democrats voting for it and 15 Republicans voting against it. Shelley Moore Capito, a Republican senator for West Virginia, urged her colleagues to vote against the amendment, saying that “every president has the prerogative to implement new goals and priorities”.
Nevertheless, senators at the hearing rejoiced that they could come to a bipartisan agreement to fund health agencies: “To the scientists wondering if there will even be an NIH by the end of this administration, this committee’s resounding message is: ‘Yes, Congress has your back’,” said Patty Murray, a Democratic senator for Washington state and vice-chair of the committee. “We need you to stay here and keep this research going.”
Under the bill, budgets for other health agencies would also remain roughly the same. For example, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, whose budget the Trump administration wanted to cut by more than half, would receive $9.1 billion, compared with $9.2 billion in 2024.
The committee meeting comes towards the end of a tumultuous week for the NIH, after the White House blocked, and then unblocked, the agency from spending the remainder of its 2025 budget — about $15 billion — by issuing grants. With the NIH cancelling grant-review meetings in early 2025, funding processes have been delayed, and agency staff members are working in overdrive to process as many grants as possible before the end of the fiscal year on 30 September. If they don’t distribute the money, the agency will have to return the unused funds to the US Treasury.
US senators poised to reject Trump’s proposed massive science cuts
US senators poised to reject Trump’s proposed massive science cuts
These disruptions have drawn condemnation, and not only from Trump’s opponents: 14 Republican senators sent a letter to the White House on 25 July demanding that the NIH be allowed to spend its full 2025 budget.
or
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02448-3
Reprints and permissions
Exclusive: NIH to dismiss dozens of grant reviewers to align with Trump priorities
Judge rules against NIH grant cuts — and calls them discriminatory
US senators poised to reject Trump’s proposed massive science cuts
Trump proposes unprecedented budget cuts to US science
How Trump 2.0 is reshaping science
My AI chatbot thinks my idea is fundable
Career Column 31 JUL 25
Powerful satellite will map changes on Earth in stunning detail — down to a centimetre
News 30 JUL 25
Columbia researchers eager to restart science after university’s deal with Trump
News 29 JUL 25
How China’s bold talent recruitment has shaped science
News 29 JUL 25
China reins in the spiralling construction costs of nuclear power — what can other countries learn?
Comment 28 JUL 25
Meet the early-career scientists planning to leave the United States
News 25 JUL 25
India to penalize universities with too many retractions
News 01 AUG 25
I could not have become an astronomer on my own
Career Feature 01 AUG 25
My AI chatbot thinks my idea is fundable
Career Column 31 JUL 25
Postdoc opportunity to engage in both foundational machine learning research and high-impact interdisciplinary applications in the life sciences.
Vienna, Austria
AITHYRA GmbH - Research Institute for Biomedical Artificial Intelligence of the Austrian Academy of Sciences
Shenzhen, Guangdong (CN)
Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation
Shenzhen, Guangdong (CN)
Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation
The Carol and Gene Ludwig Program for the Study of Neuroimmune Interactions in Dementia at Yale School of Medicine seeks new tenure-track faculty.
New Haven, Connecticut
Yale School of Medicine - Ludwig Program for the Study of Neuroimmune Interaction in Dementia
6 major schools are now hiring faculty members.
Shanghai, China
ShanghaiTech University
Exclusive: NIH to dismiss dozens of grant reviewers to align with Trump priorities
Judge rules against NIH grant cuts — and calls them discriminatory
US senators poised to reject Trump’s proposed massive science cuts
Trump proposes unprecedented budget cuts to US science
How Trump 2.0 is reshaping science
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Nature
                    
                    (Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited