This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Fox Nation's 'The Life of Hulk Hogan' documents Terry Bollea's rise from ringside spectator to pro-wrestling superstar.
A private funeral service was held on Tuesday evening for Hulk Hogan, where dozens were gathered at Indian Rocks Church in Florida to celebrate the life of the wrestling icon.
Hogan died last month at 71 years old after suffering a heart attack on July 24 at his home in Clearwater, according to the Pinella County medical examiner. He had a history of atrial fibrillation, a heart condition that causes irregular and rapid heart rate.
Hogan, whose real name is Terry Bollea, was baptized at Indian Rocks Church in 2023, and he was laid to rest there surrounded by family, friends and loved ones.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
WWE Legend Hulk Hogan attends the 2015 Susan G. Komen D.C. Race for the Cure at The National Mall on May 9, 2015 in Washington, DC.  (Kris Connor/WireImage)
WWE icons like Paul "Triple H" Levesque and WWE former co-CEO Stephanie McMahon were among those who attended the service. Other celebrities, including Kid Rock, Bam Margera and more were seen.
The service had a strong police presence, as Largo officers and church security were patrolling the area as well as K-9 dogs. Signs reading, "Private Event," were at the gates.
For those that couldn’t attend, like President Donald Trump, they paid their respects over social media.
HULK HOGAN DIED OF HEART ATTACK WHILE FACING OTHER HEALTH ISSUES: OFFICIALS
"They are having the ‘Hulkster’s’ funeral today, and I thought everybody would enjoy seeing this picture," Trump wrote on Truth Social with a picture of him and Hogan arm wrestling.
Gov. Ron DeSantis also ordered flags be flown at half-staff last Friday, declaring it "Hulk Hogan Day in Florida."
"He was a true Floridian through and through," DeSantis wrote in a statement about the declaration.
Hogan’s body will be cremated.
Wrestling legend Hulk Hogan greets the crowd during the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Crown Jewel pay-per-view at the King Saud University Stadium in Riyadh on November 2, 2018. (FAYEZ NURELDINE/AFP via Getty Images)
Sky Daily Hogan shared in an emotional social media post that her husband had been "dealing with some health issues, but I truly believed we would overcome them."
"I had so much faith in his strength. I thought we still had more time," Daily Hogan wrote.
Hogan’s larger-than-life personality was seen in and out of the wrestling ring. He was the main draw of the first-ever WrestleMania in 1985 and was a cornerstone of the entertainment giant that continues to flourish today.
He was also a star on the silver screen as well as reality TV, with "Hogan Knows Best" following his life on VH1, while also starring in multiple movies and shows.
"I am so grateful I knew the real version of him," Brooke Bollea Oleksy, Hogan’s daughter, wrote on social media. "Not just the one the world viewed through a carefully curated lens."
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Hogan’s son, Nick, added in his own social post: "Thank you for being the best dad in the world and thank you for being my best friend. I love you so much Big Dog and I will miss you forever."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X, and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter.
Scott Thompson is a sports writer for Fox News Digital.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.