German shepherd was being walked by the man at the time of the alleged act
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
The Nanaimo RCMP have released images of a man they suspect punched and kicked a dog he was walking.
According to spokesperson Const. Sherri Wade, at 6:30 p.m. on July 27 in the 200-block of Selby Road a witness saw a man allegedly punch and kick a German shepherd that the man was walking.
“The witness called out to the man, telling him to stop, and the man came towards the witness aggressively, demanding to see their phone,” Wade said.
“The witness told the man they weren’t recording the interaction, which helped de-escalate the situation. The man and the dog walked away, southbound on Selby.”
However, the witness did capture a photo of the suspect and his dog and contacted police.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sunrise will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
The man is around 5-foot-11, weighs roughly 175 pounds and has a ponytail and tanned skin. He was carrying a skateboard at the time of the incident.
“The dog appears to be a German shepherd cross, black, tan, and white, with a white-tipped tail,” Wade said.
Police are asking anyone with information about the male or the dog to contact the Nanaimo RCMP non-emergency line at 250-754-2345.
The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act in B.C. gives the B.C. SPCA the power to investigate and recommend charges of animal cruelty to Crown counsel.
dcarrigg@postmedia.com
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.