If you're into beauty, there are few things more frustrating than seeing hype around a certain product, only to learn that they're not available to buy here in the UK. Until recently, one such skincare brand was INNBEAUTY Project, a smash hit in the US for delivering incredible results – but luckily for shoppers, it has finally launched in the UK, including hero product Extreme Eye Cream.
INNBEAUTY Project is now available to buy at Sephora stores and Sephora online, with every product under £50 – including what is officially the number one eye treatment at Sephora in the US, INNBEAUTY Project Extreme Eye Cream, which has sold out three times already there since March, and has shoppers reporting a noticeable improvement in fine lines and skin firmness after just a few days.
READ MORE: Meghan Markle-loved make-up brand drops ‘game-changer’ concealer that reduces crow’s feet
READ MORE: ‘I had a first look inside Sephora’s newest UK store and here’s what I’ll be buying’
Extreme Eye Cream (£49) contains a powerful blend of peptides, bio-retinol and fermented amino acids in a nourishing base, to target a number of skincare concerns around the eye area, including fine lines and wrinkles, loss of firmness and elasticity, and puffiness.
INNBEAUTY Project's tests showed that it was clinically proven to significantly decrease puffiness, wrinkles, and sagging eyelids in one week, while after eight weeks there was noted a 26% average reduction in eyelid sagging and a 25% average reduction in crow's feet.
There are also some impressive before-and-after shots on the Sephora website, plus hundreds of five-star reviews from shoppers praising how well Extreme Eye Cream works:
"I saw results after using this eye cream for a few days," one shopper wrote. "I noticed that my fine lines had diminished drastically. The skin on my other eye area seem much more firmer and smoother. I was looking for an eye cream that could keep fine lines at bay and this definitely is the product to do that. Ever since I've been using this product, I noticed that my eye area looks much more youthful."
"I really love this INNBEAUTY Extreme Cream Eye," another review reads. "Already a fan of their Extreme Cream for the face. It leaves the under-eye area looking refreshed and bright [and] I can already start to see my fine lines looking better around my eye. I’d recommend this if you’re looking for a good eye cream."
"A total game-changer for my eyes!" reads a third review. "I’ve tried countless eye creams, but Extreme Cream Eye Lift genuinely impressed me. Within a week, I noticed a real difference — the puffiness under my eyes had visibly reduced, and my eyelids looked firmer and more lifted. The texture is rich but not heavy, and it melts beautifully into the skin, leaving it perfectly prepped for concealer."
A few shoppers, however, reported problems with the packaging. "There is no tube to help the cream move up to the pump...maybe it's like a vacuum container where the bottom has a diaphragm that rises when the product is dispensed?" one person remarked, going on to say that they "liked the Beauty of Joseon retinal eye cream better, or the Lift & Firm by Sephora."
As the shopper above mentioned, another INNBEAUTY buy that's definitely worth adding to your basket is fellow hero product Extreme Cream (£49), a firming and lifting moisturiser that delivers a 133% increase in hydration after six weeks, and a 13.5% reduction in wrinkles.
If, however, you're looking for other cheaper eye cream suggestion, L'Oréal Paris has two great options: Revitalift Pro Retinol Anti Wrinkle Eye Cream is currently down from £14.99 to £7.49, while Age Perfect Cell Renew Midnight Eye Cream Antioxidant Recovery Complex is a more advanced offering, and now down from £29.99 to £22.49.
WHATSAPP: Get the best deals and exclusive discount codes straight to your phone via our WhatsApp group.
Users must download or already have WhatsApp on their phones to join in.
All you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! We may also send you stories from other titles across the Reach group.
We will also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners.
Some of these articles will contain affiliate links where we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from them.
If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like.
To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.
CLICK HERE TO JOIN
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.