An evacuation order from the Regional District of Nanaimo covers a total of 393 mostly residential properties and evacuation alerts have been issued for 238 other properties
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
Firefighters in B.C. are in for a busy August long weekend, as the number of active wildfires was listed at 150 on Sunday afternoon, up from 120 on Friday.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Here’s an update on the wildfire situation around the province:
Fire crews worked through Saturday night to battle the growing wildfire on Vancouver Island that has led to the evacuation of nearly 400 properties.
An update posted Sunday by the B.C. Wildfire Service says the fire, burning along the challenging terrain on the shore of Cameron Lake, measures about 3.89 square kilometres in size, up from the 2.45 square-kilometre estimate provided the day before.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sunrise will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
At a news conference, fire information officer Madison Dahl said 142 personnel were responding to the fire located about 60 kilometres from the city of Nanaimo, along with seven helicopters and heavy equipment.
“Operations will continue to prioritize protection of residences, values and critical infrastructure,” she said.
Dahl said fire departments from around Vancouver Island have been brought in to help and are focused on the Little Qualicum River Village and park area and the north side of Cameron Lake.
An evacuation order from the Regional District of Nanaimo covers a total of 393 mostly residential properties, including Little Qualicum Falls Park, and evacuation alerts have been issued for 238 other properties.
Douglas Holmes, the emergency operations director for the Regional District of Nanaimo, said the evacuation was complete by late Saturday.
Dahl said the fire along Cameron Lake was burning in inaccessible and challenging terrain “with large amounts of available timber.”
“It is going to continue to produce smoke as the fire consumes fuels along the slope,” she said.
Dahl said the region is expected to get cooler in the next few days, but added the area is in a period of drought.
She said some rain is possible for Wednesday, but a significant amount would be needed to make a difference in the fire.
The wildfire service said large-scale water delivery systems were being established and heavy equipment was working to create control lines in workable ground.
— The Canadian Press
The B.C. Wildfire Service reported Sunday that lightning continues to be a challenge in the province with 14,000 new strikes recorded the previous day. That beings the total number of strikes to 62,000 since Wednesday.
Lightning remains in the forecast for several parts of B.C., including the northeast, Robson Valley and the central and southeast, says the service, adding that winds are also expected to pick up in northern B.C.
Temperatures, however, are expected to cool this week with scattered showers that will help firefighters’ efforts.
As of Sunday afternoon, there were 150 wildfires burning in B.C., including 35 started in the previous 24 hours, according to the wildfire service. In that same timeframe, there were 25 fires declared out.
— Staff Reporter
The wildfire near Peachland that forced hundreds of residents to quickly evacuated their homes just days ago is no longer out of control and the evacuation order has been lifted for all residents.
The Central Okanagan Emergency Operations centre says the remaining 118 addresses on the last evacuation order are now cleared, and residents can return home but must be ready to leave again quickly.
The B.C. Wildfire service says the blaze is no longer out of control, and is now considered as being held after aerial firefighting efforts were effective in cooling the fire.
—The Canadian Press
An evacuation order due to an out-of-control wildfire burning on Vancouver Island has been expanded to encompass nearly 400 properties, including an entire provincial park.
The fire burning on the north banks of Cameron Lake, about 60 kilometres from Nanaimo, grew to an estimated 2.45 square kilometres, officials said Saturday.
District spokeswoman Rebecca Taylor said most of the 393 properties under evacuation order are residential and that another 238 properties are under evacuation alert.
Later in the day the evacuation order was expanded to the north and to the east
A post on B.C. Parks website said an evacuation order was in place that includes all of Little Qualicum Falls Park.
“To support the work of wildfire crews, all visitors should leave the park immediately and remain out of the area until further notice,” the advisory said.
It’s not immediately clear how many properties are affected by the order expansion.
B.C. Wildfire Service said that since Wednesday, more than 48,000 lightning strikes have been recorded, with significant activity in the Kamloops, Cariboo and Prince George regions.
The Prince George Fire Centre alone reported more than 33,200 strikes.
The Saturday report said that 44 new wildfires have been detected in the last 24 hours, 34 of which are lightning-caused.
The number of active wildfires in B.C. continues to spike after high temperatures and lightning strikes this week
The wildfire service says the Cariboo Fire Centre region in central B.C. saw more than 1,200 lightning strikes Wednesday, which started 13 new fires in the area.
The Snaking River Wildfire, 65 kilometres west of Quesnel, is 1.5 square kilometres in size and producing smoke that is visible from Quesnel, Highway 97 and surrounding communities.
Heat warnings have ended for much of the province and there’s a small chance of isolated showers, but dry conditions mean fuel on the ground remains ripe for ignition.
—Tiffany Crawford, The Canadian Press
The Cantilever Bar wildfire located 10 kilometres south of Lytton had seen only limited growth on Saturday, according to the B.C. Wildfire Service.
An evacuation order for Lytton First Nation remains in place. Four areas also remain on evacuation alert.
The fire is highly visible from Highway 1, and fire officials are asking motorists to use extra caution and be aware of the surroundings while passing through.
An evacuation alert has been issued for some properties near Harrison Lake as the Bear Creek wildfire continues to burn out of control.
The Fraser Valley Regional District issued the alert Thursday for the North Cascade Bay Area on the east side of Harrison Lake.
People who live in the affected area are asked to be prepared to leave their homes on short notice. “This is a cautionary notification as wildfire behaviour is not predictable,” said the regional district.
It said closures to the Harrison East Forest Service Road and other forest service roads might limit access to the area.
The evacuation alert includes the Cascade Peninsula Recreation site, which has 25 campsites on the eastern shore of the lake south of the wildfire.
It also covers about 50 cabins in the North Cascade Bay area.
If there were a weekend that could be described as peak summer in B.C., this would be it. Local vacation destinations see a surge of visitors as the cities empty out a little.
But with forest fires raging across the province, is it advisable to travel?
“The August long weekend feels like the height of summer for us,” says Ellen Walker-Matthews, CEO of the Thompson Okanagan Tourism Association, where a wildfire is burning near Peachland. “We welcome people to continue with their plans.”
The patio at Bliss Bakery in Peachland was busy on Thursday, said owner Barry Yeo. Guests enjoyed baked goods and a water show as helicopters picked up buckets of water from the lake.
The bakery has a strong customer base, but business triples in the summer months, he said. “It should be business as usual this weekend,” he said.
Harrison Hot Springs is also open despite a wildfire burning about 20 kilometres away on the eastern shore of Harrison Lake.
Read the full story here.
—Glenda Luymes
With files from Cheryl Chan and The Canadian Press
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.