Via VigilantFox.com
DNI Tulsi Gabbard just called out the mainstream press for going quiet on the newly declassified revelations that EXPOSE the full extent of the Russia Hoax.
According to Gabbard, this silence is no coincidence.
“I’m not surprised for a few reasons.”
“Primary of which, many of these mainstream media outlets were the ones who—John Brennan and his people, and James Clapper and his people, leaked to almost immediately after that, Obama-directed National Security Council meeting.”
“Weeks before that assessment was completed. And actually even before it had really begun being drafted.”
NEW: Tulsi Gabbard says she’s not surprised the media is SILENT on Russia Hoax bombshells—after all, they pushed the lie and WON Pulitzer Prizes for it.
DNI Tulsi Gabbard just called out the mainstream press for going quiet on the newly declassified revelations that EXPOSE the… pic.twitter.com/Wyqr6aC2cx
She said the media didn’t question a thing.
“In many cases, you know, they printed…these mainstream media outlets printed exactly what they were told to print, without any kind of vetting or like, hmmm…okay, was this always the assessment? Or can you give us any evidence that this is true?”
“None of it. Because it didn’t exist.”
“These are mainstream media outlets that went on to repeat and build up and really advance and propagate this lie that was created by President Obama and his administration and went on to win awards for it.”
Pulitzer Prizes….for lies.
Assistance and Requests: Contact Us
Tips: tips@zerohedge.com
General: info@zerohedge.com
Legal: legal@zerohedge.com
Advertising: Contact Us
Abuse/Complaints: abuse@zerohedge.com
Make sure to read our "How To [Read/Tip Off] Zero Hedge Without Attracting The
                        Interest Of [Human Resources/The Treasury/Black
                        Helicopters]" Guide
It would be very wise of you to study our privacy policy and our (non)policy on conflicts / full disclosure.Here's our Cookie Policy.
How to report offensive comments
Notice on Racial Discrimination.