We're gearing up for our next list of Wall Street's Rising Stars — and we want your input.
For the past eight years, Business Insider has highlighted the young professionals making waves in investment banking, investing, and sales and trading. We've highlighted dealmakers and market movers at firms like Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Blackstone, and Citadel who were quick to leave their mark.
Our finance reporters rely on a mix of sourcing, industry insight, and reader tips to identify the next generation of power players.
If you know someone based in the US who is 35 or younger, works in a front-office role, and stands out from their peers, we want to hear about them — and what makes them exceptional.
Meet our 2024 class
Our most recent set of young professionals reflect the future of finance. Several of them are shaping the trajectory of clean energy and artificial intelligence by financing the infrastructure that will underpin these developments. Some have seen their focus go from niche to hot asset. Others are influencing how Wall Street interacts with Main Street, using their skills and savvy to create new products and services for ordinary investors or giving employees at portfolio companies ownership stakes.
The rising stars also shared how they unwind and stay grounded in order to stay mentally sharp.
Meet the 2023 class
2023's cohort included traders setting new playbooks for deals and trades and an investor building out burgeoning private markets businesses within the world's largest bank. These influencers also financed some of the biggest deals of the past few years and provided an edge to top investors with complex and innovative products.
They shared the lessons learned from their biggest career mistakes and how their Wall Street wardrobe had evolved from their COVID work-from-home days.
Meet the class of 2022
As Wall Street navigated volatile markets, fewer deals, and plummeting company valuations, we found the players rising up despite the challenges.
One invested in space ventures, and another executed multibillion-dollar trades. Some up-and-comers pushed their teams to the top of industry rankings.
From books on the science of sleep to fantasy football strategy podcasts, here's what these bright leaders were reading and listening to. And here are some of their lessons and advice.
Jump to