This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
While walking the carpet at the Golden Globe Awards, Sharon Stone told Fox News Digital "you get to choose how you view the world."
That scene.
Looking back on her infamous "Basic Instinct" leg-crossing scene, Sharon Stone says she wouldn’t take it out, despite having had the legal right to do so at the time.
"It made me an icon, but it didn't bring me respect," Stone told Business Insider of the controversial moment.
She added, "I very much believe that none of us knew at the time what we were getting in regard to that shot, and when [director] Paul [Verhoeven] got it, he didn't want to lose it, and he was scared to show me. And I get that."
SHARON STONE, MICHAEL DOUGLAS CELEBRATE 30TH ANNIVERSARY OF ‘BASIC INSTINCT’: ‘A LITTLE CONTROVERSY’
Looking back on her infamous "Basic Instinct" leg-crossing scene, Sharon Stone says she wouldn’t take it out, despite having had the legal right to do so at the time. (Sunset Boulevard/Corbis via Getty Images/©TriStar/courtesy Everett Collection)
She said once she calmed down, "I didn't make him take it out of the movie when I had the legal right to. So I did have the chance to do it differently, and I didn't because once I had the chance to step back, I understood, as the director, not the girl in the film, that that made the movie better."
Stone went into more detail about her reaction in her memoir "The Beauty of Living Twice."
"First, at that time, this would give the film an X rating," Stone explained. "Remember, this was 1992, not now, when we see erect penises on Netflix. And, Marty said, per the Screen Actors Guild, my union, it wasn’t legal to shoot up my dress in this fashion. Whew, I thought. After the screening, I let Paul know of the options Marty had laid out for me. Of course, he vehemently denied that I had any choices at all. I was just an actress, just a woman; what choices could I have?"
"I very much believe that none of us knew at the time what we were getting in regard to that shot, and when [director] Paul [Verhoeven] got it, he didn't want to lose it, and he was scared to show me. And I get that."
She wrote that before she had been called in to see the shot, she had been told "'We can’t see anything – I just need you to remove your panties, as the white is reflecting the light, so we know you have panties on.'"
Stone wrote that she eventually decided to let it stay in because "it was correct for the film and for the character; and because, after all, I did it."
In fact, Stone told Insider that she almost didn’t get the part of villainess Catherine Tramell because Michael Douglas, who played the detective investigating her for murder, didn’t want to work with an unknown.
Sharon Stone at the Golden Globes in January. (Matt Winkelmeyer/WireImage)
"Everyone they went out to would turn it down," she explained. "But the thing was, Michael Douglas did not want to put his bare a-- out on the screen with an unknown — and I understood that. He wouldn't even test with me, but that was also for a different reason: We had an argument prior to that."
SHARON STONE'S 8 BIGGEST ROLES: ‘BASIC INSTINCT’ AND BEYOND
Michael Douglas and Sharon Stone dancing in a scene from "Basic Instinct." (Getty Images)
LIKE WHAT YOU’RE READING? CLICK HERE FOR MORE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS
Stone said at the Cannes Film Festival before she was cast in "Basic Instinct" she called him out for talking about someone she knew.
Sharon Stone uses an ice pick in a scene from "Basic Instinct." (Sunset Boulevard/Corbis via Getty Images)
"So I said something and he responded to me, saying, ‘What the f--- do you know?’" she said. "So he screams this at me across a whole group of people. And I'm not the person who goes, ‘Oh, excuse me, superstar.’ I pushed back my chair and said to him, ‘Let's step outside.’ That's how we first met."
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER
The pair did indeed go outside, Stone claimed, and she said she explained to him what she knew of the person he was talking about.
Sharon Stone claimed she and Michael Douglas had an altercation at the Cannes Film Festival before she was cast in "Basic Instinct." (Sunset Boulevard/Corbis via Getty Images)
"And then we parted," she said. "I wouldn't say as best friends, but amicably. So, fast forward to casting ‘Basic Instinct,’ I don't think he wanted me to be his costar."
Reps for Douglas told Insider that he didn’t remember seeing Stone at Cannes until they were promoting the film together.
Sharon Stone claimed Michael Douglas didn't initially want her as his co-star. (Sunset Boulevard/Corbis via Getty Images)
Allen Burry, a rep for Douglas, told Fox News Digital, "Michael Douglas has nothing to say beyond what was reported yesterday by People magazine online."
Burry told People on Monday that Douglas was "very surprised [by Sharon's quotes]," as "he doesn't remember any argument in that timeframe" between them.
"He actually only remembers seeing and meeting Sharon for the first time when he saw [director] Paul Verhoeven's screen test of her for ‘Basic Instinct’ and [Michael] said, 'Absolutely, she's the one,'" he continued.
While Douglas "definitely spent time with" Stone at Cannes, "that was later, when they were promoting ‘Basic Instinct’ in 1992," Burry said. "And by the time they'd done the movie, they were friends."
Stone said the tension helped their onscreen chemistry.
Sharon Stone said the tension helped their onscreen chemistry. (Sunset Boulevard/Corbis via Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
"It worked great because I was not rattled if he yelled at me," she said. "That was interesting for the character because Michael has a temper, and I didn't care. That worked very well in our dynamic. Eventually, we became the greatest of friends, to this day. I admire him tremendously."
Get a daily look at the top news in music, movies, television and more in the entertainment industry.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.