By 


      Joe Hernandez
    


                A Boeing sign is pictured outside the Renton Production Facility in Renton, Wash., on Nov. 3, 2024.
                
                    
                    Jason Redmond/AFP via Getty Images
                    
                
hide caption

Roughly 3,200 unionized workers at Boeing facilities in Missouri and Illinois have voted to strike beginning at midnight Monday after failing to reach an agreement on a labor contract.
The action comes days after the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers District 837 (IAM), whose members build fighter jets and other weapons systems, rejected a modified contract offered by Boeing.
"IAM District 837 members build the aircraft and defense systems that keep our country safe," IAM Midwest Territory General Vice President Sam Cicinelli said in a statement on Sunday.
"They deserve nothing less than a contract that keeps their families secure and recognizes their unmatched expertise," Cicinelli added.
Boeing Air Dominance vice president and general manager Dan Gillian said in an emailed statement to NPR that the company was "disappointed our employees rejected an offer that featured 40% average wage growth and resolved their primary issue on alternative work schedules." 
Gillian, who is also senior St. Louis site executive at Boeing, added that the company was "prepared for a strike and have fully implemented our contingency plan to ensure our non-striking workforce can continue supporting our customers."
The workers are employed at two Boeing facilities in Missouri — in St. Louis and St. Charles — as well as another in Mascoutah, Illinois, according to IAM. They assemble and maintain weapons systems, missile and defense technology and aircraft, including F-15 and F/A-18 fighter jets, IAM also said.
Late last month, the union announced that members of District 837 had "overwhelmingly voted to reject" Boeing's contract offer. The previous contract expired just before midnight on  July 27.
Sponsor Message
Become an NPR sponsor