This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned Americans to take "enhanced precautions" while traveling to China over an outbreak of the mosquito-borne chikungunya virus.
The agency issued a fresh travel warning this month saying that cases of the illness are rapidly spreading in Guangdong province, with most being reported in the city of Foshan. Chinese health officials said more than 7,000 cases have been confirmed there since June 2025.
"Most people infected with chikungunya virus develop some symptoms. Symptoms of chikungunya usually begin 3–7 days after a bite by an infected mosquito," according to the CDC. "The most common symptoms are fever and joint pain. Other symptoms may include headache, muscle pain, joint swelling, or rash. Most people get better within a week; however, some can have severe joint pain for months to years following acute illness."
"People at risk for more severe disease include newborns infected around the time of birth, older adults (65 years or older), and people with medical conditions such as diabetes or heart disease. Death from chikungunya is rare," the CDC added. "There is no specific treatment for chikungunya."
RARE TICK-BORNE VIRUS CAUSING NEUROLOGICAL SYMPTOMS DIAGNOSED IN NORTHEASTERN STATE
A sanitation worker sprays insecticide to prevent the spread of the Chikungunya virus on Aug. 3, 2025 in Dongguan, in the Guangdong Province of China. (VCG via Getty Images)
In Foshan, efforts to combat the virus include drones being sent out to identify mosquito breeding sites, workers spraying residents with mosquito repellent before allowing them into buildings and mosquito-eating fish being released into ponds, the New York Times reported.
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control said that as of July, there had been around 240,000 global cases of the chikungunya virus across 16 countries and territories. The cases have been linked to 90 deaths.
The CDC said in addition to China, there are outbreaks in countries including Bolivia, Kenya and Sri Lanka. Americans traveling to Brazil, Colombia, India, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines and Thailand also are at elevated risk of exposure to the virus.
DOCTORS REVEAL KEY SIGNS OF LYME DISEASE AS TICK SEASON INTENSIFIES ACROSS US
Workers carry out maintenance work on green spaces during an operation aimed at mosquito control amid a sharp rise in Chikungunya virus cases on July 25, 2025 in Foshan, China.  (VCG via Getty Images)
"You can protect yourself by preventing mosquito bites, which includes using insect repellent; wearing long-sleeved shirts and pants; and staying in places with air conditioning or that have screens on the windows and doors," the CDC said in its advisory.
"Vaccination is recommended for travelers who are visiting an area with a chikungunya outbreak," the CDC continued, noting that there are currently two approved chikungunya vaccines in the U.S.
A staff member carries out disinfection work at a hospital amid an outbreak of chikungunya on July 23, 2025 in Foshan, China.  (VCG via Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
"Seek medical care immediately if you develop fever, joint pain, headache, muscle pain, joint swelling, or rash during or after travel," the CDC advised.
Greg Norman is a reporter at Fox News Digital.
Stay up-to-date on the biggest health and wellness news with our weekly recap.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.