Subscribe
Today's print edition
Home Delivery
The Central League will adopt the designated hitter rule in 2027, it announced Monday night, ending the practice of pitchers hitting and bringing the league in line with the Pacific League and most of the world after decades of resistance.
The six CL clubs voted unanimously in favor of the change during a board meeting in Tokyo.
The change means NPB’s two leagues will operate under the same set of rules for the first time since the PL adopted the DH in 1975. Currently, the DH is only in effect during PL games and when interleague and Japan Series contests are hosted in PL parks.
The CL is one of the few leagues around the world where pitchers still hit.
The system was first introduced by the American League in MLB in 1973 as a way to drive up offense and attendance. The National League, similar to the CL, held out for decades — with the exception of a temporary adoption during the 2020 season as part of COVID-19 protocols — before MLB introduced a universal DH rule in 2022.
Over the years, the PL and leagues in South Korea, Taiwan and many other countries adopted the DH system. The DH is also used during the World Baseball Classic, the Premier12 and other international competitions.
In Japan, the collegiate Tokyo Big6 Baseball League will introduce the DH next spring, as will its counterpart in Kansai and the Japan High School Baseball Federation.
“As one of the world’s leading baseball nations, along with MLB, it is important for NPB to have a flexible approach to global trends,” NPB Commissioner Sadayuki Sakakibara said in a statement on Monday.
Some in the CL had been calling for the league to introduce the DH for years.
Former Yomiuri Giants manager Tatsunori Hara has been a very vocal proponent. After his team was swept by the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks in the 2019 Japan Series, he said the DH contributed to the relative strength of the PL and had greatly aided the development of Pa League pitchers.
The CL decision mostly ends what had been a heated debate between traditionalists who prefer the game without the DH and those in favor of the system.
The argument against the DH often centers around strategy — the in-game chess match of double switches, pinch hitters and more that can occur late in games. The other main pillar of the argument is that playing without the DH is baseball in its purest form.
Eliminating the DH also removes the drama and excitement that comes from a pitcher helping his own cause with an unexpected big hit, like the two-run double the Hiroshima Carp’s Shohei Mori hit against the Hanshin Tigers last week.
Those in favor of the DH say hits like Mori’s are such a rarity that they should not factor into the argument. They feel that fans would rather see more competitive at-bats instead of pitchers striking out and making weak contact more often than not.
The DH rule can also help extend careers, proponents say, as players can remain in the lineup regularly without the rigors of playing defense.
Pitchers are also able to focus on pitching without needing to work on their batting.
The 2026 season will give teams the chance to think about how they will construct their rosters ahead of the change.
“Next season’s CL pennant race will be the last one where pitchers bat,” Sakakibara said. “I hope everyone watches it from that perspective as well.”
While the CL acknowledged that a portion of its fanbase may not welcome the change, officials say it helps the game move forward.
“The Central League's decision to adopt the DH system from the 2027 season and take on a new challenge in baseball is a big step forward for NPB as we look toward the future,” Sakakibara said.
In a time of both misinformation and too much information, quality journalism is more crucial than ever.By subscribing, you can help us get the story right.
With your current subscription plan you can comment on stories. However, before writing your first comment, please create a display name
            in the Profile section of your subscriber account page.
Your subscription plan doesn't allow commenting. To learn more see our FAQ
Sponsored contents planned and edited by JT Media Enterprise Division.
広告出稿に関するおといあわせはこちらまで
Read more