An American in the UK has shared that there are three things that she now cannot live without, saying if she were to have any of them taken away completely, she would find it "difficult". TikTok user @yorkshirepeach said that she'd been back in America for a while, and she'd found it "really weird" that certain things that are normal in the UK, and pretty common, were not there.
The first thing that she couldn't believe isn't freely available in the US is squash. "Not that yellow vegetable, my American friends," she joked, saying that she actually meant "cordial," the dilutable juice.
She explained to those who do not know that you pour the squash in, and then fill the rest up with water, and then drink it, saying that you "just keep that under the cabinet".
"I can't imagine a life when I'd go back to not having squash," she shared, saying that when she was in America, she kept having to buy proper juice for her son, and it takes up too much space.
She also fumed that there didn't seem to be blackcurrant flavoured things in America either, saying that people in the US will get defensive and say there's grape flavoured things, but she seethed that it's "not the same".
Next up was a kettle. She said that in American hotel rooms, there's no kettle, but an "old school coffee pot".
Because of this, she found herself "boiling water on the stove" for "instant coffee and tea," which is less than ideal.
"I just can't imagine going back to a life with no kettle," she lamented, wondering how people do it, bringing up the fact that she couldn't even use a kettle when she made ramen noodles.
She did note that some people will say they have a kettle in America, but she pointed out that it's "rare". "Most people don't have them. I went to three friend's houses while I was there and nobody has a kettle, she shared.
Another thing she said that she'd be "remiss" if she didn't mention was "free healthcare".
She said that she knows people pay for the NHS in a roundabout way through taxes, but she meant "free at the point of service".
The TikToker pointed out that in the UK, people "take for granted" that there will be someone to look after them, should they become sick or injured.
She said that people don't consider that if they "have an accident" that they could get into "huge, huge amounts of debt," and this is something she would miss if she weren't in the UK.
Furthermore, she admitted that once she was away with her kids, she was worrying about getting into an accident or falling over, just in case she needed medical attention, which isn't something that concerns people in the UK, thanks to the NHS.
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.