Accident occurred around 6 p.m. at the intersection of 200 Street and 80 Avenue
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
A motorcyclist died on Wednesday evening after a collision with a vehicle at the intersection of 200 Street and 80 Avenue. It was the second fatal motorcycle accident in Langley in the past week.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
According to Langley RCMP spokesperson Sgt. Zynal Sharoom, police were called to the intersection near the Langley Events Centre at 5:56 p.m. with reports of a serious motor vehicle collision involving a motorcyclist.
Sharoom said that as of 9 p.m. part of the intersection remained closed.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sunrise will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
“This investigation is in its very early stages. Therefore we are asking motorists and other road users to avoid the area and find alternate routes. Road closures will remain in effect and could last several hours,” Sharoom said.
Anyone who was in the area at the time of the collision is asked to contact the Langley RCMP at 604 532 3200.
On Sunday, Highway 1 in Langley westbound was closed for several hours after a collision involving a motorcyclist, who died from their injuries.
dcarrigg@postmedia.com
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.