Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
       from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
       get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
       and more. Learn More
Key Points
Although shares have retreated from their all-time high, those who bought shares one year ago are still looking at growth in their positions.
It's been a busy summer for Tempus AI (TEM 0.52%). Founded in August 2015, the company is celebrating its 10-year anniversary this month. Tempus AI also recently celebrated its one-year anniversary as a public company, having held its initial public offering (IPO) in June 2024.
While strong enthusiasm for artificial intelligence (AI) has buoyed numerous stocks higher over the past year, it took some time before investors chose to pick up shares of Tempus AI after it became an investment option. Let's see how investments in the healthcare company that's using AI to improve patient care have panned out over the past year.
Image source: Getty Images.
Consistent with many stocks when they debut on public markets, Tempus AI stock has demonstrated some volatility in its 14 months as a publicly held company. Shares began trading on June 14, 2024, at $40, but they quickly plunged 29% in their first week of trading.
Once the market got to know the company a little better, shares fared much better. After performing well in the first several weeks of 2025, Tempus AI stock hit a high-water mark and closed at $89.44 on Feb. 14, representing a 124% gain over its opening price.
Those who bought Tempus AI stock when it first became available have seen their investments grow 56% as of this writing, while investors who bought Tempus AI stock exactly one year ago -- Aug. 5, 2024 -- have seen their holding climb a slightly lower 51%. Those who invested $1,000 a year ago, now have a position valued at $1,510.
Because Tempus AI is unprofitable, traditional valuation metrics aren't useful in assessing the stock's price tag. However, its price-to-sales ratio of roughly 10 seems reasonable, considering its substantial market opportunity as it develops AI solutions to help physicians provide individualized patient care and assist researchers in discovering new pharmaceuticals.
Scott Levine is a contributing Motley Fool Stock Market Analyst focusing on publicly traded companies in the energy, industrials, tech, and materials sectors. 

In addition to this role, Scott works as a high school English teacher and a small business owner. 

He holds a B.A. in English and Creative Writing from Binghamton University, an M.A. in Secondary Education from Adelphi University, and an advanced certificate in School Building Leadership from CUNY Queens College. 

Fun fact: A crossword puzzle enthusiast, Scott has solved more than 3,100 New York Times puzzles with a 97% solve rate.
Scott Levine has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Stocks Mentioned
*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Related Articles
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
© 1995 - 2025 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends