Here’s how to position yourself before the Physical AI boom goes fully mainstream…
Hello, Reader.
Although “International Federation of Robotics” may sound like the name of the newest Marvel Studios action film, it is actually a nonprofit organization that monitors worldwide robotic trends.
That’s not as dramatic as superheroes. But the IFR is still pretty cool, if only for one simple reason…
Its latest data shows the robotics trend is up.
According to a new report by the IFR, more than 4 million industrial robots now populate the world. And as robotics enters a new AI-accelerated era of growth, the IFR says that number will top more than 6 million within the next three years.
Since the launch of ChatGPT, AI has been the catalyst for one of the fastest technological shifts in human history.
That is why, about two years ago, I teamed up with my fellow InvestorPlace Senior Analysts– Louis Navellier and Luke Lango – to launch a special research project we call AI Revolution Portfolio.
The idea was simple: Identify the small group of AI stocks with the potential to 5X, even 10X your money over the next several years.
After digging through dozens of candidates, we locked in on a high-conviction portfolio – companies with the tech, the teams, and the timing to lead the AI boom.
That group of stocks became the foundation of AI Revolution Portfolio.
We’ve released several new “baskets” of AI stocks since we started, including the AI Appliers Portfolio back in December.
But over the past six months alone, the entire landscape has changed… again… launching us into the AI robotics boom
But robotics isn’t just another chapter in the AI story…
This is a whole new phase, where AI steps off the screen and starts reshaping the physical world.
So, we went back to work… and created the Day Zero Portfolio, focused entirely on the companies leading this next wave.
This “Day Zero” moment – when AI rears its head in the offline world – is your first, best chance to get positioned before Physical AI goes fully mainstream. Already, automation is transforming companies like Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN), Walmart Inc. (WMT), Deere & Co. (DE), and others.
Our Day Zero Portfolio includes seven new AI recommendations set to capitalize on the growing world of robotics and Physical AI. These are a carefully selected group of companies that give you targeted exposure to the next wave of AI exponential progress.
Some are leaders in robotics and automation… some are building the platforms other machines run on… and some are under-the-radar plays most investors have never even heard of.
These are real companies with real revenue and a direct role in what’s coming next.
And that is what makes this Day Zero moment so powerful.
Now, this new portfolio launches tomorrow. (You’ll get an email letting you know exactly when to tune in… so watch your inbox.)
But today, I’d like to share my perspective on Physical AI – and what we as investors should expect going forward.
Simply hit the play button below to watch now.
July 30, 2025
Trade relationships and peace deals have held our global economy for decades… but now they’re hanging by a thread. If that thread breaks, we’re looking at an era of chaos that will make 2008 look like a minor correction. So, in Wednesday’s issue, I share what you can do to prepare for what lies ahead.
August 1, 2025
Narvik, Norway, is known for its incredible natural surroundings – including an unworldly view of the Northern Lights. And now, it’s also home to Stargate Norway, OpenAI’s first data center initiative in Europe. While this may not bring an influx of tourists, it will certainly require large amounts of infrastructure to build and operate the data center… an area where investors like you can profit. Keep reading for the best way to play the data center boom.
August 2, 2025
The Magnificent Seven have been the “kings of the market” for the past few years, leading to some of the biggest gains on Wall Street. But now this septet is spending like kings, and that’s going to lead to different results – so I don’t believe they deserve a spot in your portfolio. These tech giants are becoming too bold with their AI spending… so let’s focus on these stocks instead.
August 3, 2025
In Sunday’s guest issue, fellow InvestorPlace Senior Analyst Louis Navellier joins us to share his frustration with the Federal Reserve’s refusal to cut rates. With inflation cooling, global central banks easing, and warning lights flashing across key economic indicators, Louis argues that the Fed’s delay could soon have real consequences. Click here for how you can best position yourself to profit.
The AI robotics boom is already underway – but you still have time to get in. So, watch your inbox tomorrow for my free Day Zero Portfolio broadcast with Luke and Louis.
And keep an eye out for your next Smart Money, where I’ll dive into specific opportunities with which you can profit from this incoming shift.
Stay tuned!
Regards,
Eric Fry
By looking for big-picture trends that drive huge, multiyear moves in entire sectors of the market, Eric Fry exploits moneymaking opportunities regular Wall Streeters miss.
Article printed from InvestorPlace Media, https://investorplace.com/smartmoney/2025/08/beat-wall-street-next-ai-breakout/.
©2025 InvestorPlace Media, LLC
Market Analysis
Market Analysis
Market Analysis
Market Analysis
Market Analysis
Market Analysis
Market Analysis
Market Analysis
All rights reserved. Nasdaq
						quotes delayed at least 15 minutes, all others at least 20 minutes.
						Copyright ©
						2025 InvestorPlace Media, LLC. All rights reserved. 1125 N. Charles St, Baltimore, MD 21201.
Not Yet a Premium Subscriber?
Your Email