A tech CEO tragically died in a freak skydiving accident when he came crashing down into a field after being hit by a friend's knee.
Thomas Britis, 44, and his friend both jumped from the Boituva National Skydiving Centre in São Paulo before crashing into one another. Brazilian outlet G1 reported that both of the pair's parachutes deployed, meaning Thomas had been unable to gain control after releasing it.
Following the accident, the CEO of Voluy Telecom was rushed to São Luís Hospital, where he tragically died from his injuries. It's reported that his dive partner was also treated at the same hospital.
His family described him as being "very experienced" as a skydiver, having jumped from planes since 2014. Although, the collision occurred during what is known as a Desloc jump – a free flight technique where the parachute relies on your body to generate lift and horizontal movement as you fall.
The Brazilian Parachuting Confederation (CBPq) said it regretted the accident and has already instructed a technical expert to prepare a report that will detail and investigate the incident. Their statement reads: "At this difficult time, our thoughts are with our athlete, his family, and the entire skydiving community. We reiterate our commitment to the safety and integrity of everyone involved in our sporting activity."
Police were able to seize both the parachutes and a helmet from the scene and are working with forensics to identify the exact cause of death. The case is currently being treated as suspicious while the police continue to investigate.
An emotional tribute was made by Thomas's cousin, Mayra. She shared: "He worked very hard and was very loving to his son, to his family. He was so experienced; it was such a silly accident. No one ever imagined it would happen."
She told G1: "I was getting ready to go get my nails done when I got the phone call. I broke the news of the death to the rest of the family. I live in Uberlândia and had to come to Pouso Alegre.
"He was so young; he was in the best phase of his life, doing something he loved so much. Despite the distance, we were always close. Thomas was also best man at my wedding." Maya continued to say that there was "no one who didn't love him."
Meanwhile, the CEO's company paid tribute to him as a passionate leader. “His energy, commitment, and passion for innovation left a profound mark on all who had the privilege of knowing him," their statement read. "In this time of mourning, we join in solidarity with his family, friends, and all who share this great loss."
It was confirmed by the Boituva city hall that both of the divers parachutes were open when they landed, except Thomas's descent was uncontrolled.
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.