Palestine Action's ban under terrorism legislation passed comfortably through the Commons but has provoked anger among pro-Gaza MPs and campaigners. The proscription places the group alongside the likes of Hezbollah and Islamic State.
Tuesday 5 August 2025 02:25, UK
Police are warning of mass arrests if a protest in support of the banned group Palestine Action goes ahead on Saturday.
Hundreds of people are expected to turn out for the demonstration, which is understood to be planned for London.
However, the Metropolitan Police said "anyone showing support for the group can expect to be arrested."
"We are aware that the organisers of Saturday's planned protest are encouraging hundreds of people to turn out with the intention of placing a strain on the police and the wider criminal justice system," said a spokesperson.
The organisers, a pressure group called Defend Our Juries, denied their protest will try to overwhelm the police and justice system.
"If we are allowed to protest peacefully and freely, then that is no bother to anyone," said the group in a statement.
Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player
Palestine Action was banned under terrorism laws after two aircraft were damaged at RAF Brize Norton on 20 June.
Home Secretary Yvette Cooper said the vandalism of the planes was "disgraceful" and accused the group of a "long history of unacceptable criminal damage".
The ban means membership of, or support for, Palestine Action is a criminal offence punishable by up to 14 years in prison.
Be the first to get Breaking News
Install the Sky News app for free
More than 200 people supporting the group were arrested at Defend Our Juries protests across the UK last month, many of whom held placards with the message: "I oppose genocide, I support Palestine Action."
Downing Street has urged people not to attend this weekend's protest.
Read more on Sky News:Kremlin urges nuclear cautionHow Euros star juggled studies and training
It comes after around 40 people gathered outside Labour HQ on Monday to protest the party's stance on Gaza.
They were watched by a small group of police officers as they chanted phrases including: "Shame on Keir Starmer, shame on the Labour Party, shame on David Lammy."
Follow our channel and never miss an update
Separately, the Board of Deputies of British Jews has also confirmed it will protest this weekend, with community organisations marching through central London to Downing Street on Sunday.
They are calling for the government not to recognise the state of Palestine without all hostages taken by Hamas being released.
Last week, Sir Keir Starmer said he planned to recognise Palestine by the UN General Assembly meeting in September, unless Israel met certain conditions including agreeing a ceasefire and improving the humanitarian situation in Gaza.