August 4, 2025e-Paper
The View From India
									Looking at World Affairs from the Indian perspective.
First Day First Show
									News and reviews from the world of cinema and streaming.
Today's Cache
									Your download of the top 5 technology stories of the day.
Science For All
									The weekly newsletter from science writers takes the jargon out of science and puts the fun in!
Data Point
									Decoding the headlines with facts, figures, and numbers
Health Matters
									Ramya Kannan writes to you on getting to good health, and staying there
The Hindu On Books
									Books of the week, reviews, excerpts, new titles and features.
August 4, 2025e-Paper
Published - April 12, 2021 08:47 pm IST - TIRUNELVELI
Folk artistes play traditional drums in front of Thoothukudi Collectorate on Monday.
Rural folk artistes, who are staring at uncertainty after cancellation of temple festivals across the State in the wake of the pandemic, have sent SOS to the government as they are the verge of losing their income for the second successive year.
Festivals organised in temples between April and August give opportunities to                         karagam        ,                         oyil        ,                         parai        ,                         thappu        ,                         poikkaal kuthirai        ,                         devaraattam        ,                         paavai kooththu        ,                         Kaniyaan kooththu        ,                         villupaattu        ,                         theru kooththu        ,                         nagaswaram        ,                         naiyaandi melam        ,                         thavil         artistes. Hence, they wait in great anticipation for the season every year. The income earned during the five months helps feed their families during the rest of the year. They also have to use a part of the money to repay loans.
When the lockdown was promulgated in March last, the folk artistes lost their revenue as festivals were banned in places of worship, where celebrations were curtailed and held behind the doors without devotees.
“Since temple celebrations were cancelled, folk artistes were not booked last year and we lost all revenue. We had to borrow to feed our families. Even as we were getting ready for this festive season with the hope of repaying our debts, COVID-19 again threatens to dislodge our livelihood as temple celebrations have been cancelled due to the pandemic. If we lose our revenue this year too, our families will get wiped out,” said ‘Thevarkulam’ Mariappan, treasurer of Tirunelveli District Rural Folk Artistes Welfare Association
He, along with other rural folk artistes, submitted a petition at the Collectorate on Monday.
When the State Government gave Rs. 2,000 as pandemic relief to the rural folk artistes last year following the lockdown, it was given only to those who had registered their names with the welfare board. “Hence, the Tamil Nadu Government should adopt the families of rural folk artistes until this crisis is over and use them for creating COVID-19 awareness among the public,” said S. Jegajeevan, director of ‘Thoothukudi Thamizh Panpaadu Maembatttu Maiyam’.
He also said the government should stand guarantor for loans availed by the folk artistes from private and public sector financial firms. “Some of our artistes cannot even repair their instruments due to poverty… So the government should help them.”
Before submitting their petitions, the rural folk artistes performed for a while on the Collectorate premises.
Similar petitions were submitted at Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari Collectorates.
Published - April 12, 2021 08:47 pm IST
Copyright© 2025, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions  |  Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines   for posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.