Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
       from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
       get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
       and more. Learn More
Key Points
Looking for an easy way to build your wealth? Look no further than these reliable and historically high-yielding consumer staples giants.
If you are looking to build your wealth, one of the easiest ways is to buy reliable dividend stocks. One of the best places to find reliable dividend stocks is the consumer staples sector. Luckily for you, some of the most iconic consumer staples stocks look like they are on sale right now, including General Mills (GIS 0.01%), Clorox (CLX -1.96%), and PepsiCo (PEP 1.02%). Here's a look at each one.
Wall Street tends to think very short term, which is great news for investors with the wherewithal to think long term. Specifically, General Mills, one of the largest packaged food makers on the planet, is seeing a slowdown in its business. Sales dropped 2% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025. Thus, investors are shunning the stock, pushing its dividend yield up to a historically high 4.8%.
General Mills stands toe to toe with any of its peers as a business. It has a strong brand portfolio, it has an impressive innovation track record, and it has top-notch distribution and marketing strength as well. Right now, performance is weak because of shifting consumer trends and buying habits. That's not unusual -- the company is used to adjusting with the times. That's how it has managed to pay a dividend for 124 years.
Although the dividend has not been increased every year, it has trended generally higher for decades. Unless you believe that people are going to suddenly stop eating, General Mills is probably going to find a way to get back on the growth track. It has done exactly that many times before over the past century or so.
Image source: Getty Images.
Clorox is a bit different from General Mills. While General Mills is focused on food, Clorox is focused more on brands and categories where it believes it can be a sector leader. That has resulted in an eclectic brand portfolio that includes Burt's Bees, Brita, Glad, Hidden Valley, Fresh Step, Kingsford, and, of course, Clorox, among many others. In a few key niches, Clorox is the only branded product in the category, meaning it is the driving force for the product category.
It is an attractive model and has worked well over time. Clorox has increased its dividend annually for 48 consecutive years, two shy of Dividend King status. The dividend yield is historically high right now at around 3.8%.
One of the big problems for Clorox has been the fact that its margins got crushed after the coronavirus pandemic. That said, management has been working hard to fix that headwind and achieving material success. The company's gross margin has improved by around 10 percentage points from the low it saw in 2022. Cost cutting, streamlining, and innovation have all played a role. But the big picture is that Clorox isn't some fly-by-night consumer staples company. It's a proven survivor that has a high yield despite the success it's showing as it works to get its margins back.
PepsiCo is another food maker, with a heavy focus on beverages (Pepsi) and salty snacks (Frito-Lay). It also makes packaged foods in its Quaker Oats business, but that's a smaller operation. Right now the company is a bit out of step with customers, and its growth has been lagging that of its most notable peers, including Coca-Cola (KO 1.42%). That has left investors shunning PepsiCo stock in favor of those peers.
This is a buying opportunity, considering the historically high 3.9% dividend yield. Like General Mills and Clorox, PepsiCo is an industry leading company when it comes to its competitive position. But even great companies go through hard times. The question is: What does a company do during the hard times? In PepsiCo's case, the answer is hunkering down and using the same playbook that has been so successful throughout the company's history.
The list of things PepsiCo is doing includes innovation, business optimization, and buying new brands to refresh its brand portfolio. These aren't exactly exciting things -- they're just business as usual. But that's how PepsiCo has become a Dividend King with over five decades of annual dividend increases behind it.
When times get tough, PepsiCo doesn't flinch. It just keeps operating at a high level. History suggests that the beverage and snack giant will eventually get back on track. If you buy today, you can collect a lofty yield while you wait for better days.
The hard part with General Mills, Clorox, and PepsiCo is getting past each company's less-than-impressive recent business performance. To do that, simply focus on how well these companies have been run over the long term. Then you can easily justify buying these historically high-yielding stocks. What you get to do after that is sit back and collect big dividend checks while you wait for better days. History suggests that, given time, each of these iconic consumer staples makers will reward you well.
Reuben Gregg Brewer is a contributing Motley Fool Stock Market Analyst covering publicly traded companies in the energy, utility, REIT, and consumer staples areas.

Prior to The Motley Fool, Reuben was the Director of Research at Value Line Publishing, an investment research company. At Value Line, he rose from Mutual Fund Analyst to Equity Analyst to eventually overseeing all of the company's research operations. 

He holds a B.S. in Psychology from State University of New York at Purchase, an M.S. in Social Work from Columbia University, and an MBA from Regis University.

Reuben has been featured as an expert on CNBC, in various books, and across various online and print publications.

He believes dividends are a window into a company's soul. He tries to invest in good souls.
Reuben Gregg Brewer has positions in Clorox, General Mills, and PepsiCo. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Stocks Mentioned
*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Related Articles
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
© 1995 - 2025 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends