Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
       from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
       get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
       and more. Learn More
Key Points
Exxon's second-quarter results led the sector.
ExxonMobil (XOM -1.96%) is in a class of its own. The oil company recently reported its second-quarter financial results, which led the sector across most key categories.
The company is in an excellent position to continue delivering leading results going forward, making it a compelling oil stock to buy and hold for the long term.
Image source: Getty Images.
ExxonMobil earned $7.1 billion and generated $11.5 billion in cash flow from operations in the second quarter. That led all international oil companies (IOCs) by a wide margin. Exxon's earnings were more than double Chevron's ($3.1 billion) and well ahead of Shell's ($4.3 billion).
"The second quarter, once again, proved the value of our strategy and competitive advantages, which continue to deliver for our shareholders no matter the market conditions or geopolitical developments," stated CEO Darren Woods in the second-quarter earnings release. The oil giant delivered its highest second-quarter production total since the merger of Exxon and Mobil more than a quarter century ago at 4.6 million barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) per day.
Its output rose 13%, fueled mainly by its acquisition of Pioneer Natural Resources. Additionally, Exxon reported the best quarter yet for high-value product sales in its products solution segment.
Another factor fueling Exxon's strong financial results is its structural cost savings program. The company has delivered $1.4 billion of savings this year, increasing its total to $13.5 billion since 2019. That's more than all other IOCs combined.
Exxon's strong cash flows enabled it to return an industry-leading $9.2 billion to its shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and share repurchases, leading the oil sector. It's on track to buy back $20 billion of its stock this year. Since May 2024, Exxon has already purchased about 40% of the shares it issued to buy Pioneer Natural Resources. Even with those lofty cash returns, Exxon maintained its sector-leading balance sheet featuring the industry's lowest leverage ratio, at 8% net debt to capital.
Exxon has commenced operations on six key projects this year and expects to start up four more by year-end. "Collectively, these projects are expected to improve our earnings power by more than $3 billion in 2026 at constant prices and margins," commented CEO Darren Woods in the second-quarter earnings press release.
Those projects are only the beginning. Exxon's plan to 2030 has it on pace to invest $140 billion in major capital projects and its Permian Basin development program over the next five years. Exxon also aims to deliver a total of $18 billion in structural cost savings by the end of 2030.
The company estimates that this plan will provide it with incremental growth potential of $20 billion in earnings and $30 billion in cash flow by 2030. That positions it to deliver compound annual growth rates of 10% for earnings and 8% for cash flow over the next several years.
The oil giant's plan would produce a staggering $165 billion in cumulative surplus cash over the next five years. That will provide Exxon with ample funds to continue increasing its dividend (a sector-leading 42 consecutive years) and repurchasing a substantial amount of stock. (It plans to repurchase $20 billion annually in 2025 and 2026.)
ExxonMobil is the undisputed leader in the oil sector, as evidenced by its industry-leading financial results in the second quarter. This allowed it to return more cash to investors than peers while maintaining the sector's top balance sheet.
The oil giant isn't likely to give up its leadership position anytime soon. Its plan up to 2030 would see it deliver meaningful earnings and cash flow growth over the next few years, allowing it to continue returning lots of money to investors. That combination of growth and cash returns positions Exxon to continue delivering peer-leading total return, which it has done over the past five years with its impressive 25% compound annual total return.
Matt DiLallo is a contributing Motley Fool Stock Market Analyst specializing in covering publicly traded companies that pay dividends, especially those in the energy and REIT sectors. He also covers pre-IPO companies, ETFs, and other investing topics. 
Prior to The Motley Fool, Matt was Director of Operations for a non-profit business group in Pittsburgh and Business Manager for a religious organization in New York.
He holds an MBA and a B.S. in Biblical Studies from Liberty University.
Matt DiLallo has positions in Chevron. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Chevron. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Stocks Mentioned
*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Related Articles
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
© 1995 - 2025 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends