By
Brittney Melton
Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day.
U.S. special envoy to the Middle East Steve Witkoff has arrived in Moscow and is meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin today. His visit comes as President Trump's deadline for the Kremlin to end the war in Ukraine or face economic penalties was moved up to the end of this week.
In this pool photograph distributed by the Russian state agency Sputnik, Russia's President Vladimir Putin greets US Special Envoy Steve Witkoff prior to their talks in Moscow on August 6.
                
                    
                    Gavril Grigorov/Pool/AFP via Getty Images
                    
                
hide caption
Prominent supporters of the president have recently intensified their criticism of Israel because of the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. The Republican Party has long been aligned with Israel in its war against Gaza, but now the rift within the party is creating a political challenge for Trump. Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia last week called Israel's actions a genocide. Former White House aide Steve Bannon warned of the long-term expense of this conflict and Trump's risk of losing young Republicans' support.
Attorney General Pam Bondi has reportedly initiated a grand jury investigation into how the Obama administration handled the probe of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. NPR has not independently verified this information, which was first reported by Fox News and other outlets. Bondi launching the inquiry suggests a trend that blurs the line between the Justice Department, which has been mostly independent, and the White House.
Today marks the 60th anniversary of the landmark Voting Rights Act, which was signed into law by then-President Lyndon B. Johnson to protect against racial discrimination. However, the lawful efforts to fight against the dilution of Black voters' collective power at the ballot box may be ending soon, as a new legal argument progresses toward the U.S. Supreme Court.
Vertical photo collage of hand hold open book herbarium encyclopedia environment plant care butterfly isolated on painted background.
                
                    
                    Deagreez; Pravokrugulnik; paladin13, Israel Sebastian/Getty Images; Collage by NPR /iStockphoto
                    
                
hide caption
Keeping a journal helped writer Suleika Jaouad navigate her battle with leukemia at 22, life after treatment and the pandemic. Now, she has released The Book of Alchemy: A Creative Practice for an Inspired Life, which expands on her approach to journaling. It's a collection of essays and writing prompts from 100 writers and artists. Jaouad shares tips with Life Kit on how to reignite your writing practice if you're feeling stuck, bored, or uninspired.
For more guidance on how to start journaling, listen to this episode of NPR's Life Kit. Subscribe to the Life Kit newsletter for expert advice on love, money, relationships and more.
Divya Deshmukh of India during the final round of the 45th Chess Olympiad in Budapest, Hungary on Sept 22, 2024.
                
                    
                    Denes Erdos/AP
                    
                
hide caption
India is poised to take over the chess world, especially after 19-year-old Divya Deshmukh's recent victory at the FIDE Women's Chess World Cup. This achievement marks India's 88th grandmaster — a title awarded to the best players globally. Since the pandemic, chess has experienced a significant resurgence worldwide. With more leisure time, people began playing online and watching on YouTube. India has emerged as one of the biggest beneficiaries of this boom. Traditionally, Indian parents don't encourage their children to pursue sports seriously. But chess, which mirrors academic pursuits, has gained acceptance. Now, India is making sure its youth are poised to checkmate with a system created to teach "from the grassroots" of the sport, according to chess trainer Venkat Saravanan. Take a look at how they are making strategic moves.
A statue commemorating Confederate Gen. Albert Pike sits on the ground moments after protesters toppled it late Friday night in Washington, D.C.
                
                    
                    Eric Baradat/AFP via Getty Images
                    
                
hide caption
A statue commemorating Confederate Gen. Albert Pike sits on the ground moments after protesters toppled it late Friday night in Washington, D.C.
This newsletter was edited by Suzanne Nuyen
Sponsor Message
Become an NPR sponsor