This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Dramatic video shows rescuers using 100-foot line to hoist pair from secluded shoreline near Elephant Rock (Credit: Sonoma County Sheriffs Office and Marin County Fire Department)
Dramatic video captures the moment two hikers were rescued after becoming stranded on a secluded beach near one of Point Reyes National Seashore’s most dangerous hazards.
The pair became trapped near Elephant Rock when rising tides cut off their only way out, according to a social media update from the Sonoma County Sheriff’s Office.
After spending several hours in the area, the hikers realized they were stuck and called emergency services, department spokesperson Emily Fuller said in a statement to SFGATE.
Due to the lack of safe access by land or sea, a helicopter crew was dispatched to carry out the rescue. Using a 100-foot line, responders hoisted the hikers from the beach after securing them in a "hot seat," a harness designed for aerial rescues.
VIDEO SHOWS TEENS’ ADVENTURE TURN FRIGHTENING NEAR POPULAR TOURIST DESTINATION
Helicopter crew hoists two trapped hikers from Point Reyes beach after tides left them stranded near Elephant Rock with no safe exit.  (National Parks Service/Sonoma County Sheriff's Office/Marin County Fire Department )
The hikers were then flown to the Marin County Fire Department, the sheriff’s office confirmed. Fortunately, no injuries were reported.
Video of the rescue shows the dramatic scene as a rescuer descends to the rocky shoreline, then lifts off with both hikers suspended above the water.
FIVE HELICOPTERS NEEDED TO SAVE INJURED SOLO CLIMBER ON CALIFORNIA'S SECOND-HIGHEST PEAK
Dramatic video shows helicopter rescue of two stranded hikers. (Sonoma County Sheriff's Office/Marin County Fire Department )
While Point Reyes is a popular destination for hiking and coastal exploration, it poses serious risks, the National Park Service warns.
"The ocean is among the most dangerous features at Point Reyes," the park’s website notes.
HIKER DISAPPEARS FROM ‘EDGE OF THE WORLD’ CAMPGROUND ON TRIP WITH FATHER
The National Parks Service says, "The ocean is one of the most dangerous hazards found at Point Reyes National Seashore."  (National Parks Service)
Visitors are cautioned about dangers such as powerful surf, unexpected "sneaker" waves, strong currents, polluted water, cold temperatures and hidden hot coals. There are no lifeguards, and the area features challenging terrain, including unstable cliffs and bluffs.
Fuller emphasized that some beach areas can become "completely locked in" once the tide rises, leaving no safe path out. She advised that anyone exploring the coastline should check tide charts and carry a reliable way to call for help.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
"Having access to emergency communication is crucial," she added. "Some parts of the coastline don’t have cell service, so carrying a satellite communication device like a Garmin inReach could be a lifesaver."
Fox News Digital reached out to the Sonoma County Sheriff's Office and National Parks for comment, but did not immediately receive a response.
Stepheny Price is a writer for Fox News Digital and Fox Business. She covers topics including missing persons, homicides, national crime cases, illegal immigration, and more. Story tips and ideas can be sent to stepheny.price@fox.com
Stepheny Price is a Writer at Fox News with a focus on West Coast and Midwest news, missing persons, national and international crime stories, homicide cases, and border security.
The hottest stories ripped from the headlines, from crime to courts, legal and scandal.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.