A British nurse who ignored her family's warnings about having a boob job in Turkey nearly died following the botched surgery.
Chloe Roiser, 31, has lost half of her left nipple due to necrosis, which happened as a result of the operation at a clinic in Antalya. Chloe spent seven weeks in hospital in Turkey fighting a flesh-eating infection - treatment which cost £12,000 - and became extremely unwell during this period.
She is now back home in Wymondham, Norfolk, but has warned others not to travel abroad for cosmetic surgery. Speaking yesterday, the mum of five said: "Going to Turkey for cosmetic surgery has been a nightmare from which I thought I’d never wake up... I’m very lucky I didn’t lose my whole breast or, far worse, develop sepsis and die, leaving my precious kids without their mum." The woman is speaking out as a major crackdown on cosmetic cowboys has finally been announced by the UK government - following the Mirror's campaign.
And during Chloe's plight, her teenage daughter flew out to be at her bedside. The youngster wept and pleaded: "Mum, please don’t die" during heartbreaking scenes in April.
In fact, Chloe made two trips to the Antalya clinic. A week after the operation, Chloe, a trained nurse, came home but then became "very unwell" with fever and pain. When her breast began oozing discharge in early June, she made an emergency dash back to Turkey – accompanied by her partner and daughter as she was too weak to walk unaided or carry her own bag – for medical treatment.
The mum said she didn’t want to burden the NHS with the fall-out from cosmetic surgery in another country – but she also feared doctors here would simply take the implant out and hoped, by returning to Turkey, she could save it.
On three separate occasions, the surgeon, who had performed the original operation, cleared the infection and the necrotised skin on her breast using a scalpel – meaning she lost half her left nipple.
Chloe later collapsed and her fight for life in hospital began. Reflecting on this, the 31-year-old woman told Mail Online: "I’m a nurse so I know all too well how deadly an untreated infection and necrosis can be. The thought of dying and leaving my children without a mum, just so I could bear to look at myself undressed in a mirror and go swimming again – neither of which I’d had the confidence to do for years – is just unbearable.
"Everyone, friends, my mum, warned me not to go to Turkey for the surgery – so many knew people with horror stories – but I spent a year researching it and honestly thought, given my medical knowledge and training, I’d be safe."
An estimated 150,000 Britons travel to Turkey each year for cut-price cosmetic procedures, having discovered that a breast uplift and size D implants would cost around £3,500 – half the price it would have set her back here.
But Chloe, who at one point looked as though she'd lose her whole left breast, advises Brits against this. She admits she now "couldn’t care less how they (her breasts) look."
The graduate continued: "I owe my family and friends, who dipped into their savings to support me, so much money. I’m determined to pay it back but I don’t know how long it will be until I’m fit to work again.
"It’s not just the physical toll but the emotional toll this has taken on me. I’ve been left feeling so anxious I’m constantly on the verge of a panic attack."
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.