Oasis pretty much broke the internet with the announcement of their comeback tour last year, and now that the tour is officially here, it's not just the Gallagher brothers turning heads - it's their famous kids too.
Attending one of seven sold-out gigs at Wembley Stadium, Anaïs Gallagher, daughter of Noel Gallagher, stole the spotlight with a smudgy, sultry take on ‘rock star daughter’ glam that felt straight out of the 90s.
Sporting heavy kohl eyeliner in the waterline and tousled, undone hair, her look was a nod to the kind of beauty that defined her dad’s era, with a modern, Gen Z twist. And we've got all the details behind her exact look, including the £25 kohl eyeliner she used to get the edgy glam.
Inspired by classic rock 'n' roll glamour, Anaïs' full make-up look hailed from Charlotte Tilbury. The eyes definitely stole the show, and they were achieved by using the Supernudes Eyeliner, combined with the iconic Rock N Kohl Barbarella Brown Eyeliner, £25. The brows were then fluffed up with Brow Fix, £26, to finish off the eye look.
READ MORE: Lindsay Lohan’s youthful Freakier Friday premiere look was thanks to ‘weightless’ skin tint
READ MORE: Love Island’s Toni and Billykiss can’t get enough of this £25 vanilla body mist
For the base, Anaïs' MUA prepped her skin with the hydrating and lightweight Magic Water Cream, £79. This was followed up with the shopper-loved Hollywood Flawless Filter, £39, and the Beautiful Skin Foundation to create a glowy, natural-looking base with enough coverage to last all night long.
To really lock that make-up in and make sure it doesn't slide away, even in a sweaty crowd, the base was set with the Airbrush Flawless Finish Powder and the Airbrush Flawless Setting Spray, £32, for a stunning finish.
With her smudged liner and effortless style, Anaïs really brought the rock ’n’ roll star energy to the show, and we're obsessed.
Oasis tickets are out now for their reunion tour.
Oasis tickets are available right now from a number of online retailers. This includes both official and resale websites.
Fans will likely want to peruse Ticketmaster's wares first, as they have been touted as the original seller of the band's tour tickets. However, the online media giant has not had any tickets for some time.
And, at the time of writing, only people with allocated codes can buy tickets. Regardless, here's the link:
TICKETMASTER - Buy Oasis tickets here.
Otherwise, resale websites are where fans ought to be looking the most. Oasis have signposted Twickets as their official resale websites, however, they have not had tickets for a very long time.
As a result, fans have flocked to the likes of viagogo, Vivid Seats and StubHub instead. And, at the time of writing, some Oasis tickets are being sold for around £200 each on viagogo. Below, we have broken down all the options Oasis-lovers have to buy tickets right now. This ranges from official retailers to VIP sellers and resale websites.
Sites such as viagogo, Stubhub, and Vivid Seats allow fans to buy resale tickets from other fans. However, it is important to note that ticket conditions often prohibit resale after initial purchase. Those tickets may not be valid for admittance to gigs.
Fans intending to buy tickets for live events through resale websites should check the ticket terms and conditions, to confirm whether resale is prohibited, before they buy. Ticket terms and conditions can be checked with the original seller, such as Ticketmaster or Live Nation. If resale is prohibited, tickets bought second-hand could be voided and admission to the event refused.
Here's the links:
VIAGOGO - Buy Oasis tickets here.
VIVID SEATS - Buy Oasis tickets here.
STUBHUB - Buy Oasis tickets here.
TWICKETS - Buy Oasis tickets here.
Finally, there are also official tickets available from VIP and hospitality-based website Seat Unique. This retailer gives fans the absolute best chance of getting involved in Oasis' tour dates this year.
What's more, these VIP tickets give fans a chance to see the band with an added touch of flair and glamour. Here's the link:
SEAT UNIQUE - Buy Oasis VIP and hospitality tickets here.
WHATSAPP: Get the best deals and exclusive discount codes straight to your phone via our WhatsApp group.
Users must download or already have WhatsApp on their phones to join in.
All you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! We may also send you stories from other titles across the Reach group.
We will also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners.
Some of these articles will contain affiliate links where we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from them.
If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like.
To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.
CLICK HERE TO JOIN
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.