Thousands of homes are still without power and trains remain suspended in the aftermath of Storm Floris.
Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks (SSEN) said 22,000 homes were without power as of 08:00 but said it had managed to restore supplies to 50,000 homes.
Network Rail said teams had been working "tirelessly" to clear routes with 119 incidents reported on train lines across Scotland on Monday, amid gusts of up to 90mph in some parts.
Cancelled trains and flights caused widespread disruption across the UK on Monday, with early reports from aviation analytics firm Cirium suggesting that at least 68 departure flights were cancelled as a result of the storm.
SSEN said Floris, which resulted in an amber warning, was "the most damaging summer storm in recent memory" with thousands of properties hit in the Highlands, Moray and Aberdeenshire.
A spokesman said: "Our teams worked for as long as the light permitted last night, and were deployed again early this morning, with the support of helicopters to assess the network from above.
"Expanded teams in our control room and customer contact centre also worked through the night to reroute supplies remotely where possible and answer customer queries.
"This has been a particularly damaging storm, and we'll be working hard to reconnect customers as safely and quickly as we can – but it will take time. We thank people for their patience and understanding while we do this."
The Scottish government held an emergency meeting on Monday night in response to the "significant disruption" caused by the storm.
Justice and Home Affairs Secretary Angela Constance said travel should be avoided if possible until the danger had passed.
She said that power cuts were still affecting a "significant" number of properties, and that the recovery period would take time despite an improving forecast over the rest of the week.
"We will continue to receive updates throughout Tuesday and will have a better idea on public transport tomorrow morning," she added.
ScotRail urged customers to check their journey via the app, website or JourneyCheck before travelling on Tuesday.
The Met Office has warned that a further period of unseasonable wet and windy weather is on the way late on Wednesday and into Thursday for those in north-western parts of the UK.
SSEN  said free hot food and drinks would be provided on Tuesday in areas where homes were awaiting reconnection.
Confirmed food locations are:
Network Rail reported 75 tree-related incidents across the network, including trees falling on to overhead lines at King's Park in Glasgow, Cornton near Stirling and Bishopton near Paisley.
It said some train disruption would continue as checks were carried out on Tuesday morning.
Ross Moran, Network Rail Scotland's route director, said: "Storm Floris has caused significant disruption to Scotland's railway.
"As the storm passes our focus switches to inspecting routes which have been closed by fallen trees, debris and other damage.
"We'll use two helicopters to assist engineers on the ground. We're grateful to passengers for their patience whilst we do this."
Flights and ferries were also suspended across Scotland on Monday with people urged to avoid travel.
Most of the country's major road bridges were closed to high-sided vehicles.
Vehicles were blown over in Glasgow and Skye, while the Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo and other major events were cancelled.
Edinburgh Fringe Festival said about 110 shows had been cancelled - mostly those in temporary structures.
In Glasgow, location filming for the superhero blockbuster Spider-Man: Brand New Day was suspended in the city centre.
The SQA also warned that the weather would delay the delivery of exam results letters on Tuesday for pupils on Scotland's islands.
A Met Office amber warning, covering a wide area from the central belt to the Highlands, expired at 23:00 on Monday.
Western coastal areas saw the strongest early gusts with the high winds moving north-east later.
The Met Office said summer storms caused problems as trees were in full leaf and were more likely to be toppled with branches broken off.
Tuesday is forecast to be a calmer day as Storm Floris moves towards Scandinavia.
Certificates are being delivered by first-class post, though many students will also receive a text or email.
A review of the front page stories from the daily newspapers in Scotland.
The CAA licence allows Skyrora to launch its rocket from the SaxaVord Spaceport in Shetland.
Birthlink has been fined £18,000 after shredding the files to free up space in its filing cabinets four years ago.
Sections of high street and middle street are closed for safety reasons.
Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.