This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Kelly Clarkson reunited with her "American Idol" judges while receiving her star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Kelly Clarkson has postponed additional shows from her Las Vegas residency.
"Unfortunately, I need to postpone the remainder of the August Studio Session dates in Las Vegas," the "Since U been Gone" singer captioned an Instagram post on Wednesday. "While I normally keep my personal life private, this past year, my children’s father [ex-husband Brandon Blackstock] has been ill and at this moment, I need to be fully present for them."
KELLY CLARKSON POSTPONES LAS VEGAS RESIDENCY HOURS BEFORE OPENING NIGHT
Kelly Clarkson and ex-husband Brandon Blackstock reached a divorce settlement in 2021. (Jeff Kravitz/FilmMagic)
APP USERS CLICK HERE TO VIEW POST
A post shared by Kelly Clarkson (@kellyclarkson)
"I am sincerely sorry to everyone who bought tickets to the shows and I so appreciate your grace, kindness and understanding," she concluded.
Representatives for Clarkson did not immediately respond to Fox News Digital's request for comment.
Last month, Clarkson postponed the opening of her residency hours before it was about to begin.
LIKE WHAT YOU’RE READING? CLICK HERE FOR MORE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS
"Kelly Clarkson: Studio Sessions - The Las Vegas Residency," which was announced in February, was originally scheduled to kick off at The Colosseum at Caesars Palace July 4. There were 18 performances scheduled through Nov. 15.
Just hours before she was supposed to hit the stage, the singer took to Instagram and announced she would be postponing the show in an effort to protect her voice.
Kelly Clarkson kicked off new Las Vegas residency "Kelly Clarkson: Studio Sessions" at The Colosseum at Caesars Palace on July 11, 2025 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Denise Truscello/Getty Images for Live Nation Las Vegas)
"We have been working 24/7 to make Studio Sessions the most intimate and extraordinary experience with and for my incredible fans," the 43-year-old wrote. "I am beyond grateful that you always show up for me and I am devastated to have to postpone tonight and tomorrow’s opening at Caesars.
"The prep and rehearsals have taken a toll on my voice," Clarkson shared. "I want the shows to be perfect for y’all and I need to protect myself from doing serious damage so I am taking this weekend and next week to rest up so that we can deliver what you all deserve.
"The show is truly incredible," Clarkson continued. "The musicians and singers are outstanding, and I want us all to start out strong. I can’t wait to be back next weekend and show y’all what we’ve been working on."
Clarkson was also absent from a handful of episodes from her show earlier this year.  (Weiss Eubanks/NBCUniversal via Getty Images)
In March, the "Since U Been Gone" songstress marked a major milestone with her 1,000th episode of "The Kelly Clarkson Show."
That same month, Clarkson was absent for nearly two weeks while a variety of celebrities acted as guest hosts. She returned on March 18 only to have another guest host take her place the following day. She returned for the March 20 episode.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Clarkson’s 1,000th episode came after she'd endured a tumultuous few years, navigating a highly publicized divorce from Blackstock. The divorce was settled in 2022, and Clarkson received primary physical custody of their two children, River and Remington.
This story is developing.
Fox News Digital's Stephanie Giang-Paunon contributed to this post.
Christina Dugan Ramirez is an entertainment writer for Fox News Digital.
Get a daily look at the top news in music, movies, television and more in the entertainment industry.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.