This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
The 'Big Weekend Show' co-hosts discuss the recent shift some top Democrats have shown in their stance on whether transgender athletes should be able to compete in women's sports.
The Italian government, under new legislation, would tighten controls on the supply of gender transition medical treatment for minors, according to a draft law.
The law was passed by Italy's cabinet late on Monday but is still subject to approval from parliament. The government said the law was needed "to protect the health of minors" and introduce "effective data monitoring."
The measure would regulate medications such as puberty blockers and feminizing or masculinizing hormones for people under the age of 18 who are experiencing gender dysphoria.
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION REFINES EEOC APPROACH TO TRANSGENDER WORKPLACE DISCRIMINATION CLAIMS
The law was passed by Italy's cabinet late on Monday but is still subject to approval from parliament. (Getty Images)
Under the bill, these medications would only be dispensed following protocols that have not yet been drafted by the health ministry and, pending that, after approval by a national ethics committee of pediatricians.
The measure also establishes a national registry at the Italian Medicines Agency to monitor "the correct use of [these] medicines" and collect the medical histories of each transgender person undergoing treatment.
The draft law has sparked protests from transgender rights advocates.
USA FENCING MINNESOTA DIVISION TO ONLY SANCTION MIXED EVENTS IN RESPONSE TO TRANS BAN
FILE PHOTO: A person attends the annual LGBTQ+ Pride parade in Rome, Italy, June 14, 2025.  (REUTERS/Yara Nardi)
Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni has described herself as an opponent of what she and her allies call the LGBTQ+ lobby and "gender ideology."
Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni has described herself as an opponent of what she and her allies call the LGBTQ+ lobby and "gender ideology." (Reuters)
Meloni's government has made it more difficult for gay couples with children to both be recognized as legal parents and has made it illegal for any couple to go to another country to have a baby through surrogacy.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The draft bill could still be rejected or amended by parliament, although it is likely to be approved, given that Meloni's coalition has a solid majority and backs its objectives.
Reuters contributed to this report.
Fox News' Antisemitism Exposed" newsletter brings you stories on the rising anti-Jewish prejudice across the U.S. and the world."
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.