A woman was left scratched and bruised after she claims she was set upon by two men the moment she caught Liam Gallagher's maracas when he lobbed them into the crowd at an Oasis gig.
Mortgage advisor Chantal Arpino was 11 rows back at the concert when the rocker threw the maracas into the air after finishing the show. The 42-year-old couldn't believe her luck after catching them - but suddenly several men nearby began fighting her for them, snatching the maracas from her grasp and leaving her injured, she says.
Chantal - who paid around £1,000 for the tickets - said the incident at the band's Wembley date on Sunday night had soured her experience. She has several cuts to her hands as well as large bruises on her legs, where the two men crushed her to prise the maracas from her hands. It comes after a headteacher spotted a pupil stealing from school, but the explanation was heartbreaking.
Shockingly, pictures of a group of men with what seem to be the maracas then appeared on Facebook, with the poster saying: "Yes we got one! Anyone see my mate in the black T-shirt grab it to confirm it's legit before we consider selling it?"
Chantal travelled to the event with her partner Matt Marchant, 47, and was among 90,000 fans who packed into the London venue. She said: "The maracas were tied together and when I grabbed them I've got my hands round both of them. One hand has been pushed into another - I think the cuts are actually from my own nails.
"The one to my left was quite big, he's kind of over me, he's got his hand over my hand and he's squeezing. The other one he's literally trying to prise my fingers off. I told him 'You are going to snap my fingers, this is really painful'. I couldn't let go as my hands were trapped between the maracas.
"It was horrible. The maracas separated and then the guy who had his hands on me, he picked one up and put it under his jumper. I was literally shouting 'You're hurting me. You are going to snap my fingers.' He would not let go. The strength they used was unreal. I've never experienced anything like it.
"I don't even know where the bruise to my leg came from. I think the guy to my left must have been kneeling on me. It would have been a lovely memento, but the behaviour. It's not even about being a girl. Why behave like that? The level of strength used - think about what you're doing guys.
"It was a great night, I'm not going to take away from that, but it was a shame that was the ending." Chantal, of Chesham, Bucks, also posted on Facebook about her experience. She said: "Just a little reminder to not behave like animals please. Someone has posted their delight at securing one of Liam's maracas from last night's concert.
"This was at my expense, it's not OK to wrestle someone to the ground for any reason let alone for maracas! I completely get that it was the heat of the moment but just remember there is a human being that you are wrestling with, two guys against one girl is not OK.
"I had no way to defend myself as both my hands were trapped between the maracas and one man's vice-like grip, with the other man trying to snap my fingers back. I can only assume one of them also grabbed my leg given the nicely developing set of bruises on my thigh! Cheers guys, hope you're proud of yourselves!
"So if you are lucky enough to go to one of the remaining concerts and lucky enough to have a tambourine or maracas launched in your direction please remember you are not animals!! Have an amazing time, it really is an incredible experience! The bruises and cuts will fade, the memories of a brilliant night won't."
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.