Christopher Rivituso | Posted on August 5, 2025 |
ArcelorMittal plans to idle blast furnace No. 3 at its Dąbrowa Górnicza plant in Poland’s Silesian Voivodeship. The steel industry giant made the initial announcement back in September, citing current and future market factors. “The reason for this decision stems from the extremely difficult and constantly deteriorating market conditions,” ArcelorMittal Poland said on July 24.
Make sourcing decisions based on steel market movement, not guesswork, with weekly expert guidance on steel demand from MetalMiner’s newsletter.
ArcelorMittal Poland stated that work to idle the furnace is now underway. The firm plans to watch market conditions closely to determine the best time to bring it back on stream. The idling would leave only one furnace operating at the site, which is located about 15 kilometers west of the regional center of Katowice.
“In the last three months, we have recorded a significant drop in prices. All these factors have negatively impacted our margins, meaning that the operation of two blast furnaces in these conditions is economically unviable,” the company quoted ArcelorMittal Poland CEO and management board chairman Wojciech Koszuta as saying.
Koszuta also cited high energy prices as well as the cost of acquiring CO2 emission allowances under the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme as reasons behind the decision.
Need precise steel pricing without purchasing expensive, all-or-nothing subscriptions? With MetalMiner Select, acquire only the metal price data essential to your business, ensuring cost-effectiveness and better procurement planning.
Information on the Luxembourg-headquartered group’s website shows that besides rolling long products, which include merchant bar, sections, special sections and rails and hot rolled coil.
Offers on hot rolled coil prices in northern Europe were €530-540 ($610-625) per metric ton EXW in the week of July 21, down from €540-550 ($625-635) in late June. Transactions on imports were about €490 ($565) per metric ton CFR European ports.
Besides lower activity in Europe’s summer, market sources believed that mills were attempting to entice buyers with lower prices before the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism comes into effect. The current date for CBAM implementation is January 1, 2026, and steel industry anxiety levels remain high.
ArcelorMittal noted that imports into Poland comprise up to 80% of apparent total consumption, while for flat rolled products they cover 95%. Imports are coming from Ukraine and Serbia as well as Indonesia, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia.
MetalMiner Insights and Select covers steel industry price points, correlation charts and price forecasting for a full suite of steel forms. See our full metals catalog.
Filed under: Carbon Steel, Commodities, Ferrous Metals, Industry News, Manufacturing
Aluminum
Aluminum MMI
aluminum price
anti-dumping
ArcelorMittal
Automotive
Automotive MMI
China
Cobalt
Construction MMI
Copper
copper MMI
copper price
copper prices
General Motors
Gold
imports
India
Iron Ore
L1
L9
LME
nickel
Norsk Hydro
Oil
rare earths
rare earths MMI
raw steels MMI
Renewables MMI
Rio Tinto
Section 232
Stainless MMI
Stainless Steel
stainless steel price
Steel
steel imports
steel price
steel prices
steel production
tariffs
Tata Steel
U.S.-China trade talks
U.S. Steel
Week In Review
Zinc
MetalMiner helps buying organizations better manage margins, smooth commodity volatility, generate cost savings and negotiate prices for metal commodities. The company does this through a unique forecasting lens using artificial intelligence (AI), technical analysis (TA) and deep subject matter expertise.
© 2025 MetalMiner. All rights reserved. | Cookie Consent Settings & Privacy Policy | Terms of Service