Justin Sun boldly went where few men have gone before and after coming back from a brief trip to space the Tron founder has brought with him some cosmic ambitions for the ecosystem.
“Going to space has always been a dream of mine since I was a little kid,” Sun told CoinDesk in an interview after flying aboard Blue Origin’s NS-34 mission on August 3.
“We are at the start of a new chapter in exploration, where space is becoming more open and accessible, not just for governments or large institutions,” he said.
Sun secured his seat aboard Blue Origin in 2021 with a $28 million winning bid during a public auction. At the time, his identity was kept secret. He later revealed he was the anonymous buyer and announced plans to bring five other passengers with him on a future flight.
“Over the coming months, H.E. Mr. Sun will nominate five exceptional men and women to travel with him on his voyage,” Blue Origin said in a 2021 announcement.
Proceeds from the auction went to Club for the Future, Blue Origin’s nonprofit that funds space education efforts.
Sun, who finally flew after years of delays, described the 10-minute journey as “a surreal experience, peaceful, calm, and completely unforgettable.”
“In space, I realized how small the Earth is. It is the only home we have, and we need to do whatever we can to take care of it,” he said.
Despite the risks of space travel, Sun said he welcomes the challenge.
“Progress rarely comes without challenges. I have always been open to trying new things and pushing beyond my comfort zone,” he said.
Sun also used the opportunity to connect the mission to his work in blockchain.
“This is an exciting moment for Tron. We have always focused on innovation and expanding what is possible, starting with finance and now looking beyond Earth,” he continued.
“Sending Tron into space is a powerful symbol of what borderless cooperation can achieve. I believe the potential benefits of space exploration far outweigh the risks,” Sun added.
“Every step we take helps make space safer and more accessible for others in the future,” he noted.
Read more: Justin Sun Wants to Make TRUMP a Global Crypto Brand With $100M Buy
Sam Reynolds is a senior reporter based in Asia. Sam was part of the CoinDesk team that won the 2023 Gerald Loeb award in the breaking news category for coverage of FTX's collapse. Prior to CoinDesk, he was a reporter with Blockworks and a semiconductor analyst with IDC.
More For You
XRP Breaks $3 With $33M Traded in a Minute. Here's What Analysis Predicts Next
Despite technical resistance at $3.09 and short-term sell signals flashing, machine-learning forecasts continue to target upside toward $3.12 by month-end.
What to know:
About
Contact