This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Texas scored a victory on Monday when a federal appeals court upheld a state law requiring voters using mail-in ballots to include a state ID number or partial Social Security number.
A three-judge panel reversed a district court’s decision, saying unanimously that the law did not violate the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as some critics claimed, because it is material to confirm voter eligibility, as required under the statute.
Voters walk past signs directing to a polling location during the Super Tuesday primary election in Rio Grande City, Texas, on March 5, 2024. (REUTERS/Cheney Orr)
SECOND FEDERAL JUDGE SIDES AGAINST TRUMP'S ELECTION EXECUTIVE ORDER
Judge James Ho began the unanimous opinion with a blunt statement, "Mail-in ballots are not secure," citing Veasey v. Perry, which later became Veasey v. Abbott.
The case, later known as Veasey v. Abbott on appeal, involved Texas’s voter ID law and included findings confirmed by the Fifth Circuit that "mail-in ballot fraud is a significant threat."
READ THE COURT RULING – APP USERS, CLICK HERE:
"The ID number requirement is obviously designed to confirm that each mail-in ballot voter is precisely who he claims he is. And that is plainly ‘material’ to ‘determining whether such individual is qualified under State law to vote,’" Judge James Ho wrote in the opinion.
Ho and the other judges on the panel aligned with their colleagues on the Third Circuit, which held that "the materiality provision applies only to voter qualification determination." He said the Third Circuit's analysis was "persuasive."
A federal appeals court upheld a Texas mail-in ballot voter ID law. (REUTERS/Adrees Latif)
DOJ SUES NORTH CAROLINA OVER VOTER ROLLS
Additionally, Ho notes that while the plaintiffs argue that "there isn’t enough evidence to show the ID number requirement would meaningfully reduce voter fraud," the state disagrees on the matter.
"Our precedents compel us to side with Texas. We have made clear that states have a legitimate interest in combating voter fraud, and thus enjoy ‘considerable discretion in deciding what is an adequate level of effectiveness to serve [their] important interests in voter integrity,’" Ho wrote in the opinion.
People vote in the East Aldine community on Nov. 5, 2024 in Houston. (Danielle Villasana/Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Fifth Circuit — the same court that ruled in favor of Texas — has allowed for the tightening of voter rules in the past. Recently, judges with the Fifth Circuit ruled that mail-in ballots must arrive by Election Day to be counted, Politico reported.
Texas’ Election Integrity Protection Act of 2021 was signed in September of that year, following the 2020 presidential election. At the time, several Republican states began cracking down on voter identification. Additionally, according to the Texas Tribune, the law limited local control of elections by prohibiting counties from offering expanded voting options.
Fox News Digital has reached out to the office of Texas Gov. Greg Abbott.
Rachel Wolf is a breaking news writer for Fox News Digital and FOX Business.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.