Vaccination rates fell once again as nonmedical exemptions hit a new high.
Vaccination rates among the country's kindergartners have fallen once again, with coverage of the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccination dropping from 92.7 percent in the 2023–2024 school year to 92.5 percent in 2024–2025. The percentage changes are small across the board, but they represent thousands of children and an ongoing downward trend that makes the country more vulnerable to outbreaks.
In the latest school year, an estimated 286,000 young children were not fully protected against measles. At the same time, the country has seen numerous explosive measles outbreaks, with case counts in 2025 already higher than any other year since the highly infectious disease was declared eliminated in 2000. In fact, the case count is at a 33-year high.
The latest small decline is one in a series that is eroding the nation's ability to keep bygone infectious diseases at bay. In the 2019–2020 school year, 95 percent of kindergartners were protected against measles and other serious childhood diseases, such as polio. That 95 percent coverage is the target that health experts say prevents an infectious disease from spreading in a community. But amid the pandemic, vaccination rates fell, dropping to 93.9 percent MMR coverage in the 2020–2021 year, and have kept creeping downward.
At the height of the pandemic, some slippage in immunization coverage could be blamed on disrupted access. But anti-vaccine sentiments and misinformation are clearly playing a large role as vaccination continues to decline and access has largely resumed. For the 2024–2025 school year, nonmedical exemptions for childhood vaccinations once again hit a new high. These are exemptions driven by ideology and have risen with the influence of anti-vaccine voices, including current health secretary and fervent anti-vaccine advocate Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
Non-medical exemptions rose from 2.2 percent before the pandemic (2019–2020) to 3.1 percent in 2023–2024 and now to the all-time high of 3.4 percent in the 2024–2025 school year. Medical exemptions, meanwhile, have held steady in recent years at 0.2 percent.
As the top health official in the country, Kennedy has wasted no time in his short tenure to undermine federal infrastructure, public trust, and national access to vaccines.
Even the way the new vaccination data was released reflects Kennedy's agenda of subverting life-saving vaccines. Normally, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention produces a detailed analysis of vaccination coverage data and publishes it in its flagship publication, the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR). But the publication has been throttled since Kennedy took the helm, and people close to the publication have said that it can't publish studies unless Kennedy personally signs off on them, though the US health department denied this.
This year, there was no detailed report of the vaccination data or any announcement of its publication. A brief summary in bullet points and some limited data were merely posted online late Thursday.
When the Associated Press contacted the health department for comment on the data, the agency responded with an ambivalent statement: "The decision to vaccinate is a personal one."
Ars Technica has been separating the signal from
          the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
          technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts
          and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea of information. After
          all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.