Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.
Advertisement
Nature

                         (2025)Cite this article
We are providing an unedited version of this manuscript to give early access to its
                            findings. Before final publication, the manuscript will undergo further editing. Please note
                            there may be errors present which affect the content, and all legal disclaimers apply.
Migration of transplanted allogeneic myeloid cells into the brain following systemic hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells transplantation (HCT) holds great promise as a therapeutic modality to correct genetic deficiencies in the brain such as lysosomal storage diseases.1–3 However, the toxic myeloablation required for allogeneic HCT can cause serious, life-threatening side effects limiting its applicability. Moreover, transplanted allogeneic myeloid cells are highly vulnerable to rejection even in an immune-privileged organ like the brain. Here we report a brain-restricted, high-efficiency microglia replacement approach without myeloablative preconditioning. Unlike previous assumptions, we found that hematopoietic stem cells are not required to repopulate the myeloid compartment of the brain environment. In contrast, Sca1- committed progenitor cells were highly efficient to replace microglia following intracerebral injection. This finding enabled the development of brain-restricted preconditioning and avoided long-term peripheral engraftment thus eliminating complications such as graft-vs-host disease. Evaluating its therapeutic potential, we found that our allogeneic microglia replacement method rescues the murine model of Sandhoff disease, a lysosomal storage disease caused by hexosaminidase B deficiency. In support of the translational relevance of this approach, we discovered that human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived myeloid progenitor cells display a similar engraftment potential following brain-restricted conditioning. Our results overcome current limitations of conventional HCT and may pave the way for the development of allogeneic microglial cell therapies for the brain.
This is a preview of subscription content, access via your institution
Access Nature and 54 other Nature Portfolio journals
Get Nature+, our best-value online-access subscription
£17.99 / 30 days
cancel any time
Subscribe to this journal
Receive 51 print issues and online access
£199.00 per year
only £3.90 per issue
Rent or buy this article
Prices vary by article type
from$1.95
to$39.95
Prices may be subject to local taxes which are calculated during checkout
Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Department of Pathology, Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA
Marius Marc-Daniel Mader, Alexa Scavetti, Yongjin Yoo, Aaron Tianyue Chai, Takeshi Uenaka & Marius Wernig
Department of Neurosurgery & Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany
Marius Marc-Daniel Mader
Research Institute Children’s Cancer Center Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany
Marius Marc-Daniel Mader
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Correspondence to
                Marius Wernig.
Reprints and permissions
Mader, M.MD., Scavetti, A., Yoo, Y. et al. Therapeutic genetic restoration through allogeneic brain microglia replacement.
                    Nature  (2025). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09461-6
Download citation
Received: 30 April 2024
Accepted: 28 July 2025
Published: 06 August 2025
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09461-6
Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content:
Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.
Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative
Advertisement
Nature
                    
                    (Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.