One in three motorists have experienced a near miss due to their children throwing a tantrum in the back seat, according to a survey of 500 parents. The main distractions cited by parents included squabbling siblings, relentless screaming and a barrage of questions.
Over a third of parents confessed to taking their eyes off the road when their children managed to wriggle out of their seatbelts. For 19 per cent, the mayhem in the back seats resulted in a minor collision with another vehicle. In an attempt to maintain order and prevent accidents, 57 per cent of parents admitted to bribing their kids with snacks.
Some parents also resort to playing their children's favourite tunes or promising rewards for good behaviour. However, a third found that the most effective tactic was to hand over a tablet or smartphone. It comes after a woman travels 8 hours for wedding only to be told to leave for not reading invite 'small print'.
'Our Jet2 holiday was ruined because we flew to the wrong Spanish island by mistake'
Airbnb host rejects duo's booking after learning where in the UK they're from
The study was commissioned by Volvo Car UK as part of its Roadside Nature campaign, in collaboration with the Eden Project and wildlife presenter Steve Backshall.
The campaign launch includes an activity pack to keep children engaged with nature outside their windows, allowing parents to concentrate on driving.
Nicole Melillo Shaw, managing director for Volvo Car UK said: "It's no surprise so many parents find long car journeys stressful - trying to concentrate while managing tantrums, squabbles and constant questions is no easy task."
"The reality is it only takes a momentary distraction to lead to a potentially dangerous situation," she added. "That's why we've launched our Roadside Nature campaign - to help keep children calm, curious and occupied, so drivers can stay focused and stay safe."
The research revealed 52 per cent of parents feel worried about going on lengthy journeys with their youngsters because they worry about how disruptive they can be. As a result, almost half have actually scrapped travel plans altogether.
On average, parents reckon they get about half-an-hour into the driving before the whining, wailing and wriggling begins.
Consequently, most families either planning or contemplating a long car journey this summer are plotting their route with extra precautions.
Almost half plan to incorporate more frequent breaks allowing their youngsters to burn off energy, whilst 23 per cent are leaving early hoping to cover ground while their tiny travellers take a nap.
A quarter said their children appear significantly more settled when travelling through picturesque or wildlife-rich locations. However, the study showed an alarming gap between in young children's knowledge of the natural world.
Surveying 500 children revealed they are more likely to identify Hogwarts Castle, or Peppa Pig's residence, than iconic sites such as Stonehenge or the White Cliffs of Dover.
They are also better acquainted with Minions and Pikachu than dandelions or bluebells, with a fifth unable to identify common British trees.
While almost half of the children surveyed were unable to identify an oak tree, 17 per cent lacked confidence identifying insects - with 32 per cent of these unable to recognise a ladybird or a bumblebee.
Steve Backshall, official ambassador of Volvo Car UK's Roadside Nature campaign, said: "Nature is full of wonder - but today's kids are more familiar with cartoon castles than real ones.
"This pack is all about opening their eyes to the world beyond the screen, making every road trip a mini adventure.
"By encouraging children to appreciate their surroundings during travels, we not only keep them engaged but also minimise distractions for the driver - creating a safer and more enjoyable experience for everyone."
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.