Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, personal finance education, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation.
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
       from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
       get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
       and more. Learn More
Key Points
Energy Transfer has a lot going on this week.
This is a big week for Energy Transfer (ET 0.03%). The energy midstream giant reports its second-quarter financial results this week. Additionally, it will pay its next quarterly distribution to investors who hold shares by the end of the week.
Given the timing of these pending catalysts, investors who are thinking about buying Energy Transfer should consider doing so before the market closes on Aug. 6. Here's why that's a noteworthy date.
Image source: Getty Images.
Energy Transfer announced that it plans to release its second-quarter financial results after the market closes on Wednesday, Aug. 6. That report could serve as a catalyst for the master limited partnership's (MLP) unit price, which has declined by about 10% this year. A strong second-quarter report could provide a jolt that reinvigorates the company's unit price.
The midstream giant is coming off a solid quarter. Its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) rose nearly 6% in the first quarter to $4.1 billion, though its distributable cash flow slipped 2% to $2.3 billion. The company delivered record interstate natural gas transportation volumes (up 3%) and strong crude oil volume growth (10% increase). It benefited from healthy market conditions and the impact of last year's acquisition of WTG Midstream.
Its second-quarter financial results should start seeing the initial benefits of a major wave of organic expansion projects. The company has completed the initial phases of some Permian processing plant upgrades, its Sabina 2 Pipeline conversion, and ethane and propane services at its Nederland Flexport NGL Expansion project. It's also completing several natural gas-fired electric generation facilities to support its operations in Texas. These projects should have started supplying the MLP with incremental earnings and cash flow in the second quarter, potentially accelerating its growth rate.
Another potential upside catalyst that could emerge with Energy Transfer's earnings report is the unveiling of new growth drivers. For example, the MLP has several proposed expansion projects that are on the cusp of reaching a final investment decision (FID).
The biggest is its long-delayed Lake Charles LNG project. The company already announced two major new developments related to that project over the past few months. Energy Transfer secured several new customer contracts supporting the project, including an expansion of its agreement with Chevron.
Additionally, the MLP secured MidOcean Energy as a joint venture partner to help fund the project. Announcing that it has finally made an FID on this project could provide the MLP's unit price with a big boost.
Energy Transfer is also working on several potential projects to supply natural gas to artificial intelligence (AI) data centers, including a previously proposed project for Cloudburst's AI data center. Formally securing that project and others linked to AI data centers could also be a major catalyst for the unit price.
This week is also an important one for income-focused investors. Energy Transfer will pay its next quarterly distribution on Aug. 19. However, investors need to own units of the MLP by the time the market closes on Friday, Aug. 8. If you buy units after that date, you won't receive your first distribution payment until mid-November, when the company will likely make its third-quarter payment.
Energy Transfer's upcoming quarterly payment will be $0.33 per unit ($1.32 annualized). This rate gives it a distribution yield of 7.4% at its recent unit price. The payment is up from $0.3275 last quarter ($1.31 annualized) and a more than 3% increase compared to its payment in the second quarter of last year. The MLP has been bumping up its payment each quarter, aiming to raise it by 3% to 5% annually.
The energy company's high-yielding and steadily rising distribution makes it a great investment option for those seeking to generate passive income. However, it's worth noting that the MLP sends its investors a Schedule K-1 federal tax form each year, which can complicate your taxes. It's essential to understand the benefits and drawbacks of investing in MLPs, such as Energy Transfer, before purchasing units for your portfolio.
Investors who are thinking about buying units of Energy Transfer should consider making the trade before the market closes on Aug. 6. That way, they would hold shares before its upcoming earnings report and distribution payment.
Matt DiLallo is a contributing Motley Fool Stock Market Analyst specializing in covering publicly traded companies that pay dividends, especially those in the energy and REIT sectors. He also covers pre-IPO companies, ETFs, and other investing topics. 
Prior to The Motley Fool, Matt was Director of Operations for a non-profit business group in Pittsburgh and Business Manager for a religious organization in New York.
He holds an MBA and a B.S. in Biblical Studies from Liberty University.
Matt DiLallo has positions in Chevron and Energy Transfer. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Chevron. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Stocks Mentioned
*Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
Related Articles
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
© 1995 - 2025 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.
About The Motley Fool
Our Services
Around the Globe
Free Tools
Affiliates & Friends