Police are investigating another shots fired incident at Kap's Cafe
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
A Surrey café owned by a Bollywood star was targeted by gunfire for the second time in less than a month.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
At around 4:40 a.m., Surrey police received a report of shots fired at Kap’s Cafe in the 8400-block 120th Street.
Officers from the Surrey Police Service and Delta Police Department responded and “while it appears multiple shots caused damage to the windows and buildings, fortunately the staff on premises were uninjured,” said the SPS in a news release.
The café, owned by popular Indian comedian and TV host Kapil Sharma, was also hit by gunfire in the early hours of July 10.
It was one of several businesses that have been shot at in recent months, although police have not linked the earlier incident to extortion attempts made against the South Asian community.
The cafe was closed for more than a week after the first shooting, and reopened less than two weeks ago.
Recently, it hosted Surrey Mayor Brenda Locke, police officers, bylaw enforcement officers, and other officials who visited the cafe in a show of support.
A post shared by Kap’s Cafe (@thekapscafe_)
Anyone with information about the shooting or has dashcam footage is asked to contact police at 604-599-0502 or anonymously at Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-8477.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sunrise will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
More to come.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.