Reporter
A banner showing a picture of President Donald Trump is displayed outside of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) building on June 3, 2025, in Washington, D.C.
Reporter
The 'Big, Beautiful Bill' is massively unpopular, Trump debates deporting Musk, July 4 protests, and more
Length:
Long
Speed:
1.0x
This July 4, some Americans are planning to retire their Independence Day barbecues and instead head to the streets in protest against President Donald Trump and his Administration.
The collective demonstrations will be the latest in a long line of protests that have taken place since Trump returned to the White House for a second term. On June 14, as Trump held a national military parade in Washington, D.C.,–the largest the capital city has seen in decades—people across the U.S. gathered for counter-action, attending "No Kings" protests to publicly “reject authoritarianism.” Ahead of the big day, Trump had warned that “people that want to protest will be met with big force,” saying participants are “people that hate our country.”
Advertisement
Advertisement
Amid the “No Kings” activism, states across the U.S. also encountered immigration protests as people demonstrated against the Trump Administration’s ICE raids. The protests notably started in Los Angeles and garnered national and international attention, especially after Trump deployed the National Guard, and later the Marines, to quell the demonstrations, without the request of California Gov. Gavin Newsom. The decision resulted in much criticism and a legal battle, with an appeals court ultimately ruling that Trump was allowed to keep control of the National Guard in L.A.
In April, people gathered across the U.S. and international cities such as London, Paris, and Stockholm to protest against the actions of Trump and his then-ally, former Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) lead Elon Musk. (The former allies have since had a very public falling out.)
Advertisement
Now, a fresh round of protests are set to take place on July 4, America’s Independence Day. Here’s what we know about the planned action.
Women’s March, which coordinates protests across the U.S. against sexism and oppression, has published a list of over 140 events set to take place on July 4. The displays of protest range from rallies and marches to block parties. Women’s March has invited communities across the country to create even more events.
Per the organization, the Free America Weekend aims to highlight key issues being faced by people across the U.S., such as poverty, unlawful orders, and “the grip of hate and the politics of fear.”
"This July 4th, while the U.S. marks Independence Day, we’ll gather across the country—on porches, in town squares, backyards, and streets—to stand for real freedom and build a vision of a Free America, brick-by-brick," reads a statement within Women March’s call for action.
Advertisement
“They want us scared, divided, and alone. They don’t want us to dream about freedom. But that’s exactly what we have to do," said the organization.
After widespread “No Kings” protests took place throughout the U.S. on June 14, another round of demonstrations are set to take place on July 4.
“No Kings 2.0” events have been scheduled in Wisconsin, Louisiana and Wyoming, along with at least ten other locations across the U.S. While the “No Kings” protests in June were notably rallying against “authoritarianism,” the event page for Wisconsin’s July 4 rally in Green Bay says that the focus this time is on ICE raids and activity amid Trump’s nationwide immigration crackdown.
The protest event page encourages those attending to stand up for “community, justice [in] solidarity with our immigrant neighbors.” In June, ICE arrests conducted in Trump’s second term reportedly reached over 100,000.
Advertisement
Organizers of “No Kings 2.0” events in Louisiana and Wyoming have stressed non-violent demonstrations as a core principle of the gatherings.
Read More: Protesters Across the U.S. Rally Against Trump and Musk: ‘Stop Destroying America’
Locals are planning a demonstration outside Trump’s Mar-a-Lago residence in Palm Beach, Florida. Protesters are scheduled to gather near the estate on the evening of July 4, equipped with a large balloon depicting the President as a baby.
A similar balloon was hoisted above Trump’s Florida residence on Juneteenth in 2020, in protest against the treatment of Black Americans, in the weeks after the killing of George Floyd.
"We're supposed to be celebrating America's independence, and I felt a moral responsibility to stand up and declare our independence from Trump-ism," Mark Offerman, a local activist, told Palm Beach Daily News.
Advertisement
Meanwhile, The People’s Union USA is encouraging Americans to stay at home on July 4, boycotting large corporations and avoiding parades and firework displays in a show of solidarity against wealth inequality and ICE raids.
Instead, The People’s Union USA, who organized the “Economic Blackout” in February, wants people to focus on supporting their communities and buying locally. Founder John Schwarz has called it the “most important boycott of the year.”
“Do not wave a flag for a country that no longer waves it for you,” Schwarz said in a video. “The 4th of July is supposed to be a celebration of freedom, but what freedom are we actually talking about?”
© 2025 TIME USA, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service, Privacy Policy (Your Privacy Rights) and Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information.
TIME may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice.