ByLiz Ryan
ByLiz Ryan,
Former Contributor.
You have to get into the right mental state for a job interview. You know when your best job interview is going to happen? When you had a flat tire, or you couldn't get a cab at the airport the night before. When you're physically exhausted and wrung out, you're more present in the interview. You don't care as much. You aren't pent up and nervous and mewly.
The thing to remember before your job interview is that you're going to do beautifully.  You're going to meet a new person -- what's the big deal about that? There's nothing to it. If they don't want to hire you, God bless them. You don't need them. You are perfect in yourself. When you get that and believe it, your job interviews will get a lot easier.
Oh for God's sake Liz, did you ever have to pay a mortgage? Did you ever have a car payment past due?
Yes my darling, I understand that fear. I'm telling you that approaching the interview with the attitude "Oh God, let me get this job!" can only hurt you.
You want the job? Then you have to go in there and make it clear that you'll take the job if it's a fit for you and you'll walk away from it if it isn't.
If you radiate the energy "Please hire me, I beg you!" only a terribly fearful manager will hire you. The manager who will hire you in that state is someone who wants his or her new employee to be grateful for the job even if comes with emotional abuse threaded through it. That kind of manager can't help you grow your flame -- he or she can only squash it. You have to believe in yourself before anyone else will.
For thousands of years our species has valued courage. We talk about it incessantly. Courage is treating every job interview the same way whether the rent money is in the bank or not.
You send out energy waves. Do you doubt it? Think of pheromones. There are confidence-mones, too. Dogs smell fear, and people are no different. When you go into a job interview ready to grovel and beg and roll over and play fetch, you're toast. You have no credibility then.
Your goal on a job interview is not to please anyone. Your job is to bring yourself to the meeting, completely. Only the people who get you, deserve you.
The night before your job interview, lay out your clothes down to the pocket square if you're bringing one. I mean your exact shoes, socks, underwear, shirt, tie, dress or whatever you're wearing. If you're wearing pantyhose to the interview, get them out. Try them on. Don't take any chances. You don't need one extra thing to think about on the interview day.
WATCH: JP Morgan Chase's Mary Callahan Erdoes' Advice To Her Younger Self
Make a test drive or bus or train ride before the interview. Don't take a chance that the address on the building is obscured by scaffolding or there's a detour on the way. Go to the building and make sure you know where the entrance is. Check on the parking situation. Get all that logistical stuff out of the way.
On the night before, make a list of questions. You've got brilliant interview questions prepared, right?  You must. Research the employer up and down on their own website and 
LinkedIn
. Think about the hiring manager's pain. Why is he or she filling this job?
It's not because it's fun to hire people. Few people would say that it is. It's nerve-wracking. They're hiring someone because there are important things that can't happen in the business until this person comes on board and gets things moving. That could be you!
In the morning, go to work if you've got a lunchtime or after-work interview. Otherwise, meditate and exercise. Listen to music. Clear everything out of your mind. You can do a little of this even at work if you get a quiet moment. Listen to your favorite song on your headphones. Here are 100 of my favorites to choose from.
Get out your padfolio with a notepad and pen inside it. Write your questions on the notepad. Tuck several of your job search business cards and a few extra copies of your Human-Voiced Resume into the padfolio, and if you're printing driving directions, do that now.
If you can possibly exercise in some way before the interview, do it! Better to be exhausted than overly tight. Loosen up. Run up and down the stairs a few times if nothing else. My daughter is a 21-year-old operatic mezzo and I tell her to do ten minutes of brisk exercise before every audition. Jumping jacks are perfect, because you can do those in a small space. Wear yourself out. That's the  best way to quiet your anxious brain and relax so you can be in the moment in your interview.
The common and awful habit of a job-seeker in an interview is to anticipate the interviewer's every question and try to compose perfect Teacher's Pet answers while the interviewer is still talking. In case you forgot, it's extremely obvious when your conversation partner has mentally departed the room. Your perfect answer -- if there could ever be such a thing -- is not what the interviewer is looking for. The real you in the chair is a thousand times more important.
Managers forget job candidates all the time.
ROB: So Liz, you sent me this form to evaluate Janice Allen as a possible lab tech.
LIZ: Yes. What did you think of Janice for your job opening?
ROB: Honestly...
LIZ: Yes?
ROB: Which one was she again?
LIZ: Sort of auburn hair..
ROB: What's auburn again?
LIZ: Kind of a brownish-red. Chestnut.
ROB: Not really a hair-color guy.
LIZ: She has Cairn terriers -- like Toto in "The Wizard of Oz."
ROB: Didn't see it.
LIZ: WHAT!? I'm speechless.
ROB: For reals.
LIZ: Did you see "Mary Poppins?"
ROB: That one I saw.
LIZ: So Janice -- she worked at Motorola.
ROB: Half the people we interview worked at Motorola.
LIZ: Geez. She was a lab tech there. She worked on base station diagnostics.
ROB: Nothing. Not even a ripple.
LIZ: Here, let me show you her LinkedIn profile.
ROB: Wow! Even with the profile, I'm not getting a reading.
LIZ: And I brought her into your office. It was a busy day.
This scene plays out in offices around the world, every day. Your hiring manager is busy and distracted. Then, they fall into the script and it's a rote conversation. You have to change that energy. You're not going to do that by answering the interviewer's questions like a Good Little Sheepie interview. You have to step outside that frame completely.
That means telling the truth in a job interview, rather than trying to give the interviewer the answer you think s/he's looking for. It means spinning the table to ask questions yourself rather than sitting quietly like a person getting a citizenship exam, just waiting for the next question.
Be real in the interview, thank the interviewer for his or her time, get up, and go home. Stop and get yourself a nice gelato on the way. You deserve it!
Now the interview is over. Exercise or meditate some more. You are amazing. Everything that you said and did at the interview was exactly perfect. It was what was supposed to happen today. Don't beat yourself up or second-guess your conversation, but do capture your notes and ideas about the interview before you go to bed.
Call your wisest bestie and run down the interview with him or her, leaving out no details.
  Our friends are great at asking questions that need to be asked and making astute observations.
The interview today gave you great learning. You won't even know how much learning you got from it for months or years. It's not important what the next step is or whether you continue in this hiring pipeline or not. You did your best. If you got ideas for your next interview, fantastic! You are growing new muscles. You are getting stronger all the time!