This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Nick Wright believes Travis Hunter has the talent to be the face of the NFL and reacts to his confidence in learning both playbooks, saying the rookie’s two-way potential could be game-changing.
As the start of the NFL regular season draws closer, the Jacksonville Jaguars are offering more insight into how the team plans to deploy rookie Travis Hunter.
Hunter, who was a two-way star at Jackson State and Colorado, was listed as the starting wide receiver and the backup cornerback on the Jaguars' first official depth chart.
As the debate about whether Hunter will take a similar number of snaps on offense and defense at the professional football level continues, Los Angeles Rams wideout Davante Adams offered his take on the rookie's prospects.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
New York Jets wide receiver Davante Adams (17) warms up before a game against the Jacksonville Jaguars at EverBank Stadium. (Nathan Ray Seebeck/Imagn Images)
Adams believes Hunter could face injury concerns if his workload involves significant snaps in the long-term on the offensive and defensive sides of the ball.
"I don’t even think it’s possible to do. Not at a high level. It’s hard enough to go cover a punt and then be on one side," Adams said during a recent appearance on "The Pivot" podcast.
JAGUARS' TRAVIS HUNTER HIGHEST-RATED ROOKIE IN 'MADDEN' IN OVER 10 YEARS
"That's just a lot of mileage, man. I’m not even concerned so much if he can do it over the course of a game or a season. It’s more like, how long is his career going to be if he’s playing that many snaps? All you’re doing is doubling your risk of injury."
Jacksonville Jaguars wide receiver Travis Hunter (12) hits the padded wall after a successful; reception during the second mandatory minicamp at Miller Electric Center Wednesday, June 11, 2025 in Jacksonville, Fla. (IMAGN)
Adams made it clear that he hopes Hunter can ultimately avoid any injury, but cautioned about what the Heisman winner will encounter playing defense against NFL players.
"I don’t wish any of that on him. I hope he can play an injury-free season and go ball out. But this is the reality. It’s already 100% injury guarantee. Once you get out there playing both sides, you gotta tackle Derrick Henry with that frame. He’s athletic as hell, but he’s gotta do some ninja s---."
Jacksonville Jaguars wide receiver Travis Hunter makes a reception during the NFL football team's rookie minicamp, Saturday, May 10, 2025, in Jacksonville, Fla. (AP Photo/John Raoux)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Two-way NFL players have been a rarity. Chuck Bednarik was the league's last full-time two-way athlete. Bednarik was a linebacker and offensive lineman for the Philadelphia Eagles from 1949-62.
Sammy Baugh and Don Hutson are also notable former two-way stars. Baugh was a quarterback, defensive back and punter. Huston spent his entire NFL career with the Green Bay Packers, playing receiver and safety. He later had a stint as a Packers assistant coach.
Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X, and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter.
Chantz Martin is a sports writer for Fox News Digital.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.