We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free.
So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners.
Factor in the distance from your hotel door to the beach when planning a cheap beach vacation.
Many or all of the products on this page are from partners who compensate us when you click to or take an action on their website, but this does not influence our evaluations or ratings. Our opinions are our own.
How is this page expert verified?
NerdWallet's content is fact-checked for accuracy, timeliness and relevance. It undergoes a thorough review process involving writers and editors to ensure the information is as clear and complete as possible.
Contributing Writer
Tiffani Sherman is a Florida-based freelance writer and producer who works to support her travel habit. After many years producing television newscasts and training videos, she realized working for herself gave her more time to travel and explore the world. She has taken more than 35 cruises and has visited more than 90 countries and all seven continents.
Editor & Content Strategist
Meghan Coyle is an editor on the Travel Rewards team and the co-host of the Smart Travel podcast. She covers travel rewards, including industry news, airline and hotel loyalty programs, and how to travel on points. Meghan is based in Los Angeles and has a love-hate relationship with LAX.
You could shell out thousands of dollars to stick your toes in the sand for a long weekend. Hotel rooms at prime beach destinations can go for hundreds of dollars a night, bringing the total for just a place to sleep to almost $2,000.
But you don’t have to spend a fortune to get to the sea, sand and sun. There are deals to be had where rooms at beach destinations cost much less, both domestically and internationally.
"Our analysis of Hotels.com and Vrbo data shows that travelers can still find beachfront hotels and beach house rentals under $300 a night in top destinations across the U.S., Europe, and Southeast Asia for mid-August," Melanie Fish, Hotels.com and Vrbo travel expert, said in an email to NerdWallet.
Here are a few suggestions for cheap beach vacations based on data from Expedia, an online travel booking platform, about some of the best deals out there.
It’s still possible to find domestic beach destinations for $200 or less a night, especially before the Memorial Day holiday, marking the unofficial beginning of summer. We looked at the average price for May 15-16.
These prices and locations are just a snapshot and a few suggestions. They might not be available when you look to make a reservation.
And something else to keep in mind: At these prices you might not be able to step foot out of your hotel and be right on the sand.
Panama City Beach, Florida.
In Panama City, Florida, the average rate of a hotel stay is $103 for the night of Aug. 15, according to Expedia. Panama City has 27 miles of shoreline along the Gulf of Mexico, so there are plenty of different beaches to find the atmosphere you're looking for. There are plenty of beachfront restaurants for a more lively vibe or state parks and an island only accessible by boat for a quiet getaway.
Vacation rentals in Panama City, Florida, average $160 for the night of Aug. 15.
Downtown West Palm Beach, Florida.
Over on the Atlantic Ocean coastline of Florida, Expedia found an average nightly rate under $200 ($173 to be exact) for hotels in West Palm Beach, Florida, for the night of Aug. 15. West Palm Beach is a city with plenty of waterfront restaurants and views on the Intracoastal Waterway. Plus, it's close to gorgeous beaches on some nearby barrier islands, including Jupiter and Palm Beach.
Outer Banks, North Carolina.
Outside of Florida, the Outer Banks in North Carolina, also offer some affordable rates under $200 for vacation rentals. On the night of Aug. 15, the average vacation rental rate is $185 for the night.
The Outer Banks is perfect for families looking for a quiet place to spend time together and go to the beach, maybe surf the sand dunes and fly kites. There are also some small beach towns and attractions like historic lighthouses and the site of the Wright brothers' first flight.
South Beach and Ocean Drive in Miami Beach, Florida.
If you'd prefer an urban beach location, the big cities in Florida might be more affordable than you think. Miami, Fort Lauderdale and Tampa all have average room rates under $250 per night for the night of Aug. 15.
Orange Beach, Alabama, is just a short drive away from Gulf Shores.
Alabama might be slightly closer or more affordable for some travelers, depending where they are coming from. Vrbo vacation rental rates average $190 per night and the beaches have soft white sand and gentle surf since it's on the Gulf of Mexico.
» Learn more: The best hotel credit cards right now
If you'd rather travel internationally in August, check out some of these destinations.
Panoramic aerial view of Pattaya Gulf, Thailand in a summer day
Expedia shows an incredible average rate of $91 a night for Aug. 15 to Aug. 16 in Pattaya, Thailand, but August is the rainy season in Thailand. September or October is a shoulder season that might give travelers better chances of sunny days.
Pattaya is a lively (and crowded) beach destination is famous for water sports and a bustling beachfront area of hotels, restaurants and souvenir shops.
You can also get there from Bangkok without taking a ferry or another flight. It's about a 2.5-hour drive from Bangkok without traffic.
Just keep in mind, while the rooms might be cheap, the plane tickets are not. A flight from L.A. to Bangkok starts at about $800 round-trip and would require at least one stop.
If you don't mind adding another flight, Phuket, Thailand, is another beach city with average hotel rates of $122 for the night of Aug. 15.
A small beach in Armenistis, a village on Ikaria island.
The North Aegean Islands, which includes islands such as Ikaria, Samos, Limnos and others, can give travelers the Greek island experience at a very affordable rate. The average nightly rate is just $189 per night. These islands are known for the crystal clear waters and charming villages. Some beaches are sandy while others are pebbly.
Crete, a much larger island of Greece, also has affordable vacation rentals, with an average daily rate of $240.
Independence Square in Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic.
Closer to the U.S., the Dominican Republic has excellent beaches, and it's an easy flight from the East Coast of the U.S. This coastal city is known for its Victorian architecture, which makes it feel more historic than some of the other beach towns on this list. Visitors can stay in the city or at the beachfront hotels or all-inclusive properties outside the city center.
You want a travel credit card that prioritizes what’s important to you. Here are some of the best travel credit cards of 2025:
Flexibility, point transfers and a large bonus: Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card
No annual fee: Wells Fargo Autograph® Card
Flat-rate travel rewards: Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card
Bonus travel rewards and high-end perks: Chase Sapphire Reserve®
Luxury perks: The Platinum Card® from American Express
Business travelers: Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card
Helpful resources
Download the app
Disclaimer: 
NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date.
            This information may be different than what you see when you visit a
            financial institution, service provider or specific product's
            site. All financial products, shopping products and services are
            presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review
            the financial institution's Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified
            offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit
            score or information from your credit report, please contact
            TransUnion® directly.
NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539
NMLS Consumer Access

|

Licenses and Disclosures
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #60DBO-74812
Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services,
            Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  

Insurance Licenses
Fundera, Inc. NMLS ID# 1240038
NMLS Consumer Access
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to the
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #603L288
NerdWallet has engaged Atomic Invest LLC (“Atomic”), an SEC-registered
        investment adviser, to bring you the opportunity to open investment
        advisory accounts (Automated Investing Account and/or Treasury Account)
        with Atomic. NerdWallet receives compensation of up to 0.85% of assets
        under management annualized, payable monthly, for each referred client
        who opens an Atomic account and a percentage of free cash interest
        earned by clients, which creates a conflict of interest. Brokerage
        services for Atomic are provided by Atomic Brokerage LLC ("Atomic
        Brokerage"), member of FINRA/SIPC and an affiliate of Atomic, which creates a conflict of interest. See details
        about Atomic, in their Form CRS, Form ADV Part 2A and Privacy Policy. See details about Atomic Brokerage in their Form CRS,
General Disclosures, fee schedule, and FINRA’s BrokerCheck.
You also can open a Cash Account offered by Atomic Brokerage which
        allows you to earn interest on your cash through a cash sweep program.
        See important Cash Account disclosures here.
Neither Atomic Invest nor Atomic Brokerage, nor any of their affiliates
        is a bank. Investments in securities: Not FDIC Insured, Not Bank
        Guaranteed, May Lose Value. Investing involves risk, including the
        possible loss of principal. Before investing, consider your investment
        objectives and the fees and expenses charged.
Images are for illustrative purposes only.
NerdWallet™ | 4150 N Drinkwater Blvd, Suite 200, Scottsdale, AZ 85251