By
Brittney Melton
Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day.
Republican leaders in Texas have threatened to arrest Democratic lawmakers or expel them from the legislature if they don't return to the state House. Over the weekend, Democrats fled the state to prevent a vote on a bill aimed at redrawing Texas' congressional maps. This bill is seen as favoring Republicans, as it creates five new GOP-leaning districts, which President Trump has advocated for. Republicans currently control the Texas House, but without Democrats present, they fall short of the 100-member quorum needed to conduct business.
Texas state lawmakers board a bus following a press conference at the DuPage County Democratic Party headquarters on August 03, 2025 in Carol Stream, Ill. The group of Democratic lawmakers left the state earlier today so a quorum could not be reached during a special session called to redistrict the state.
                
                    
                    Scott Olson/Getty Images
                    
                
hide caption
The Trump administration has requested that NASA employees create plans to terminate two major satellite missions that measure carbon dioxide. The data they collect is widely used by scientists, oil and gas companies and farmers. They are the only two federal satellite missions designed and built to track planet-warming greenhouse gases.
Some seasonal workers at Yosemite National Park reported working for as long as six weeks without pay during the spring and summer while park supervisors struggled to manage hiring amid federal budget cuts. Workers said that while they are now receiving hourly wages, they have not been compensated for the work they performed as volunteers while waiting to be put on the federal payroll. NPR spoke exclusively with four seasonal employees and two full-time employees of the National Park Service who detailed their experiences.
President Trump displays a signed executive order during Thursday's signing ceremony in the White House, surrounded by administration and professional athletes including golfer Bryson DeChambeau and WWE Chief Creative Officer Paul "Triple H" Levesque.
                
                    
                    Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
                    
                
hide caption
The Presidential Fitness Test will return to school gyms nationwide after Trump signed an executive order to revive it Thursday. The test, which was traditionally conducted once or twice a year for students ages 10 to 17, included drills like push-ups and the back-and-forth PACER running test. They measured students' physical fitness for more than half a century, until former President Barack Obama phased them out in 2013 for a more holistic approach. Here's what we know about Trump's executive order so far:
Flat lay isotonic energy orange yellow and blue sport drink in plastic bottles on blue background. Allows to maintain the most optimal balance of water
                
                    
                    Vitaliy Krivchikov/iStockphoto/Getty Images
                    
                
hide caption
Living Better is a special series about what it takes to stay healthy in America.
U.S. consumers spend over $10 billion a year on sports drinks, according to the trade publication Beverage Industry. This number doesn't even include the electrolyte powders from brands like Liquid I.V. and Prime. Electrolyte drinks and powders have now morphed into wellness products for daily living. Influencers promote the products and make big claims about their benefits. Doctors and sports nutrition researchers weigh in on whether you need them.
Vermont Representative Philip Jay Hooper, who represents Orange County, makes a call using one of Patrick Schlott's payphones.
                
                    
                    Patrick Schlott
                    
                
hide caption
This newsletter was edited by Suzanne Nuyen
Sponsor Message
Become an NPR sponsor