Russia on Monday made a formal declaration that it considers itself no longer bound by the terms of the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty with the United States.
The statement said the restrictions have "disappeared" and Russia "no longer considers itself bound" by it, according a Russian Foreign Ministry statement. The agreement banned ground-launched missiles with ranges of 500–5,500km.
However, this new declaration is largely symbolic anyway, given the INF Treaty already collapsed in 2019 when the US unilaterally withdrew while complaining of violations by Moscow. Also, Russia's military has for years been using all kinds of missiles in Ukraine, including hypersonic weapons.
But Moscow all along said it was biding by the treaty's terms, having imposed a self-moratorium. But this is no more...
"The Russian Foreign Ministry notes the disappearance of conditions for maintaining the unilateral moratorium on the deployment of similar weapons and is authorized to state that Russia no longer considers itself bound by the corresponding self-imposed restrictions previously adopted," the statement reads.
Last week President Trump ordered two nuclear submarines to deploy "closer to Russia" - citing threatening nuclear rhetoric of former Russian president Dimitry Medvedev.
The "actions of Western countries" are creating a "direct threat" to Russian security, the ministry statement said. A few specifics instances of the US already in effect violating the treaty were highlighted:
Russian officials have long warned of an arms race being set off, harming global stability and security, if the US were to withdraw; but it fell on deaf ears and there's merely one landmark treaty left between the superpowers: New START, which regulates nuclear weapons, and has to be renewed.
Russia NO LONGER bound by self-restrictions on deployment of intermediate and short-range missiles — Foreign Ministry
'West's build-up of destabilizing missile potentials create a direct threat to security of our country'
VIDEO: Russia’s Oreshnik hitting its targets pic.twitter.com/IVeaBN1VPZ
President Trump has recently expressed hope that New START treaty can be renegotiated and extended. At the moment, both sides seem open to this, and talks could start soon.
Amid all the latest nuclear-related rhetoric, more arrows from Medvedev...
The Russian Foreign Ministry's statement on the withdrawal of the moratorium on the deployment of medium- and short-range missiles is the result of NATO countries’ anti-Russian policy.
This is a new reality all our opponents will have to reckon with. Expect further steps.
Assistance and Requests: Contact Us
Tips: tips@zerohedge.com
General: info@zerohedge.com
Legal: legal@zerohedge.com
Advertising: Contact Us
Abuse/Complaints: abuse@zerohedge.com
Make sure to read our "How To [Read/Tip Off] Zero Hedge Without Attracting The
                        Interest Of [Human Resources/The Treasury/Black
                        Helicopters]" Guide
It would be very wise of you to study our privacy policy and our (non)policy on conflicts / full disclosure.Here's our Cookie Policy.
How to report offensive comments
Notice on Racial Discrimination.