This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Archaeologists in Brussels, Belgium, recently came across the remnants of an old cemetery located in a busy part of the city. The remains date back to the Middle Ages. (Source: @mijnmivb via Facebook)
A 700-year-old sword was recently reeled in by a fisherman in Poland — offering a rare glimpse into warfare in the Middle Ages.
The discovery was announced by the Capital Conservator of Monuments in Warsaw last month.
In a Facebook post, the department said the lucky angler found the sword in the Vistula River.
WORKERS DISCOVER 18TH-CENTURY VESSEL WHILE INSTALLING PIPELINE IN MEDIEVAL 'GAME OF THRONES' CITY
"It was supposed to be this big a fish – but it turned out to be this big a sword!" the post read.
"As you can see, the Vistula hides some real treasures."
Experts believe the newfound sword dates back to the 13th or 14th century, around the time Warsaw was founded. (Stołeczny Konserwator Zabytków via Facebook)
The fisherman surrendered the sword to local authorities, who transferred it to local experts.
A team is now working to preserve the artifact for future study.
"A sword this old, found in what is now Warsaw, is unique."
The Facebook page's post noted that the sword is preserved "almost in its full length" and features both a spherical pommel and a cross mark on its grip.
1,000-YEAR-OLD MEDIEVAL SWORD EMERGES FROM DUTCH RIVER AFTER CHANCE DISCOVERY: 'BARELY CORRODED'
Anna Magdalena Łań, a chief specialist with the city of Warsaw, told Fox News Digital that experts are still studying the sword.
"The sword is dated to the 13th or 14th century, which is the time when Warsaw was founded," Łań noted in an email translated from Polish to English.
The weapon measures over 31 inches long, including its hilt, according to local officials. (Stołeczny Konserwator Zabytków via Facebook)
"A more precise date may be determined thanks to the cross mark, which is the ‘signature’ of the blacksmith who made it," she added. "Research is ongoing."
She said the length of the sword, including the hilt, is over 31 inches.
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
"I don’t know the weight, but the sword is quite light because [of a] very large extent of corrosion," Łań said.
"A sword this old, found in what is now Warsaw, is unique."
"The sword was found in a river, meaning it was discovered without context – that is, without other artifacts that could tell us more about it."
The circumstances of why the sword was dropped in the river are now lost to time.
For more Lifestyle articles, visit foxnews.com/lifestyle
Łań noted that swords were not deposited ritually in 13th-century Poland; they were more of a pagan tradition than a Christian one.
"A more precise date may be determined thanks to the cross mark," a city expert told Fox News Digital. A close-up of the mark is seen above. (Stołeczny Konserwator Zabytków via Facebook)
She concluded, "The sword was found in a river, meaning it was discovered without context – that is, without other artifacts that could tell us more about it."
The weapon is one of many fascinating archaeological discoveries made in Poland this year.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In Gdańsk, Poland, archaeologists recently found a medieval knight's tomb beneath a former ice cream parlor.
Months earlier, a pair of pedestrians found a 2,500-year-old dagger on a Polish beach, on the coast of the Baltic Sea.
Andrea Margolis is a lifestyle writer for Fox News Digital and Fox Business. Readers can follow her on X at @andreamargs or send story tips to andrea.margolis@fox.com.
A look at the top-trending stories in food, relationships, great outdoors and more.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.