We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free.
So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners.
The 30-year mortgage dropped to its lowest level since March.
Some or all of the mortgage lenders featured on our site are advertising partners of NerdWallet, but this does not influence our evaluations, lender star ratings or the order in which lenders are listed on the page. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners.
How is this page expert verified?
NerdWallet's content is fact-checked for accuracy, timeliness and relevance. It undergoes a thorough review process involving writers and editors to ensure the information is as clear and complete as possible.
Senior Writer/Spokesperson
Holden Lewis is a mortgage reporter and spokesperson who joined NerdWallet in 2017. He previously wrote for Bankrate, where he wrote about mortgages and real estate during the housing boom and bust. He has written articles about mortgages since 2001, and enjoys explaining complex topics to regular people who don't buy houses every day. Holden has been president of the National Association of Real Estate Editors and has won numerous writing awards. He is in the process of selling a home he inherited in Fort Worth, Texas.
Head of Content, Home Loans
Jeanette Margle leads the home loans content team at NerdWallet, where she has worked since 2019. Previously, she led NerdWallet's travel rewards content team and spent three years editing for Upgraded Points while self-employed as an editor and writing coach.
Jeanette earned bachelor's degrees in journalism and Plan II Honors from the University of Texas at Austin and has a Master of Education from the University of Houston. A lifelong Texan, Jeanette grew up in a small town in the Hill Country and lives in the Houston area with her husband and daughters.
Mortgage rates fell to their lowest levels since March because job growth has been surprisingly weak this summer.
The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 6.7% in the week ending Aug. 7, down from 6.87% the previous week. It's the lowest average rate since the week ending March 13, when it was 6.62%.
Rates began falling last Friday morning, right after the release of July’s employment report. The economy grew by 73,000 jobs, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That was less than most economists were forecasting. Worse, the initial estimates for job growth in May and June were revised downward by a total of 258,000.
Investors were as surprised and disappointed as a kid who thought she was going to get a Barbie for her birthday, only to receive a box of pencils instead.
"Friday’s disappointing jobs report drove the sharp fall in mortgage rates, as investors now anticipate slower growth and an earlier Fed rate‐cut cycle," said Kara Ng, senior economist for Zillow, in an email.
Investors now believe the Federal Reserve will almost certainly cut short-term interest rates at its next meeting ending Sept. 17, according to the CME FedWatch tool. Before Friday's jobs announcement, investors thought there was less than a 50% chance of a rate cut.
The Fed is given the job of fighting both unemployment and inflation. It generally tries to reduce short-term interest rates when jobs become scarce, and raise rates when prices rise too fast. Until the jobs report came out, the Fed seemed to be more worried about inflation than unemployment. Now investors think unemployment is the villain, and that the central bank will battle it with at least one rate reduction.
The mortgage market is acting like the Fed will be ready to take action next month, explained Odeta Kushi, deputy chief economist for First American, a provider of title insurance and real estate settlement services.
"Since mortgage rates tend to move ahead of Fed actions, they’ve been falling in anticipation," Kushi said in an email. "If confidence builds around a September rate cut, we could see rates continue to trend downward in the near term."
But what if mortgage rates stop falling? Then this week's rate decrease is a nothingburger, Ng believes. "This dip likely won’t be enough to salvage the sluggish home buying season," she said. "Lower rates may tempt a few prospective home buyers off of the fence, but a dip of this size isn’t likely to make a notable difference."
However, interest rates could drop significantly if the economy falls into a recession — that's what Mike Chadwick, president of Fiscal Wisdom Wealth Management, believes will happen. "I think we're also going to see a situation where mortgage prices come down and property values come down, which is not something you see every day," he says.
Lower mortgage rates and lower home prices might sound like a wonderful combination for people who aspire to buy their first home. But it would take a deep recession for those two events to come together, meaning a lot of folks would be unemployed or scared of losing their jobs. That's not a recipe for a lively housing market.
Helpful resources
Download the app
Disclaimer: 
NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date.
            This information may be different than what you see when you visit a
            financial institution, service provider or specific product's
            site. All financial products, shopping products and services are
            presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review
            the financial institution's Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified
            offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit
            score or information from your credit report, please contact
            TransUnion® directly.
NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539
NMLS Consumer Access

|

Licenses and Disclosures
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #60DBO-74812
Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services,
            Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  

Insurance Licenses
Fundera, Inc. NMLS ID# 1240038
NMLS Consumer Access
California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to the
            Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders
            License #603L288
NerdWallet has engaged Atomic Invest LLC (“Atomic”), an SEC-registered
        investment adviser, to bring you the opportunity to open investment
        advisory accounts (Automated Investing Account and/or Treasury Account)
        with Atomic. NerdWallet receives compensation of up to 0.85% of assets
        under management annualized, payable monthly, for each referred client
        who opens an Atomic account and a percentage of free cash interest
        earned by clients, which creates a conflict of interest. Brokerage
        services for Atomic are provided by Atomic Brokerage LLC ("Atomic
        Brokerage"), member of FINRA/SIPC and an affiliate of Atomic, which creates a conflict of interest. See details
        about Atomic, in their Form CRS, Form ADV Part 2A and Privacy Policy. See details about Atomic Brokerage in their Form CRS,
General Disclosures, fee schedule, and FINRA’s BrokerCheck.
You also can open a Cash Account offered by Atomic Brokerage which
        allows you to earn interest on your cash through a cash sweep program.
        See important Cash Account disclosures here.
Neither Atomic Invest nor Atomic Brokerage, nor any of their affiliates
        is a bank. Investments in securities: Not FDIC Insured, Not Bank
        Guaranteed, May Lose Value. Investing involves risk, including the
        possible loss of principal. Before investing, consider your investment
        objectives and the fees and expenses charged.
Images are for illustrative purposes only.
NerdWallet™ | 4150 N Drinkwater Blvd, Suite 200, Scottsdale, AZ 85251