A teenager told her mother: "You know Mum, I love you. I'm sorry. Goodbye" before she collapsed in her arms following an allergic reaction on holiday.
Lily King died four days later from a cardio-respiratory arrest caused by anaphylaxis and triggered by food. She had eaten a tiny piece of carrot at a restaurant in Morocco - where the family had been on holiday to celebrate the teen completing her first year of her economic degree - but instantly experienced allergy symptoms.
Within minutes, Lily, 18, was gasping for air and losing consciousness despite taking an antihistamine tablet and using her EpiPen. Her mum, Aicha, recalls: "She said, 'You know Mum, I love you. I'm sorry. Goodbye.' And she collapsed in my arms." The tragedy comes after a man recently died after his wife ran him over in a car park in a "tragic accident".
Since Lily's inquest in June, her parents Aicha, 57, and 75-year-old Michael have used the media to urge others to be extra cautious eating out while on holiday. They had chosen a restaurant they had been to before - and that Lily loved - during a previous trip to Rabat, Morocco but her dish was served with vegetables and a sauce Aicha, a fluent Arabic speaker, hadn't requested.
It was a small bite of one of these rogue vegetables - a carrot - that led to Lily's swift cardio-respiratory arrest. Speaking this week, Aicha, a carer for the Epilepsy Society, said: "Neither the waiter nor any of the doctors spoke English. Without Arabic, it would have been impossible to make myself understood. It is my mother tongue and yet I still couldn't get the care Lily needed... My daughter was my best friend, my everything... Without her, our life is nothing.
"I was so, so careful with everything Lily ate. I cooked everything at my mum's house and brought it to the hotel so we could eat together. We never ate hotel food. The only thing I ordered was tea."
Lily, who was from Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire, was diagnosed with severe allergies to fish and seafood, nuts, sesame, milk and eggs when she was two-and-a-half. Her asthma inhaler helped open up her airways if she ate one of the foods she was allergic to during her childhood.
The only time the student had a severe reaction that warranted emergency hospital care was in January 2024, five months before the Morocco trip, when she bought a burger at a music festival in Exeter, Devon, and shortly afterwards suffered anaphylaxis – the most extreme allergic reaction.
Reflecting on this, Michael, who is a set decorator in the movie industry, told Mail Online: "Before then, we didn't think her allergies were life-threatening. This one could have killed her. It changed everything.
"We want to spread a warning to anyone travelling to other countries where the laws are different to those in the UK – don't trust anybody,' adds Michael. We had 18 beautiful years with Lily. Never in our wildest dreams did we think we would lose her like this."
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.