The implosion killed all five people on board the vessel, which disappeared on its maiden voyage to the Titanic in June 2023.
Tuesday 5 August 2025 14:29, UK
A 'toxic workplace culture' was one of several contributing factors that led to the implosion of the Titan submersible on its way to the Titanic, a report has said.
The US Coast Guard Marine Board of Investigation (MBI) said in its Report of Investigation (ROI) that "the loss of five lives was preventable".
The 335-page report made 17 safety recommendations with the hope of "closing gaps in international maritime policy".
Among the factors that led to the loss of the vessel in June 2023 were inadequate design, certification, maintenance and inspection of the sub, the fact that the company failed to look into known past problems with the hull, and that issues with the expedition were not monitored in real time and acted upon.
Other contributing factors included OceanGate's safety culture and operational practices being critically flawed, and an "ineffective whistleblower process" as part of the Seaman's Protection Act, the board found.
According to the report, OceanGate failed to investigate the hull problems identified during a previous expedition in 2022. Real-time data produced during the mission should have been analysed and acted on but was ignored, the report says.
The vessel was also not "properly stored" during the extended off-season before the ill-fated 2023 mission, it adds.
Read moreWhat happened to the Titan?Hopes incident won't be end of deep sea explorationWhy billionaires are drawn to extreme tourism
Titan went missing on its voyage to the wreck of the Titanic.
After five frantic days of searching, the wreckage was eventually found on the ocean floor roughly 500m from the sunken Titanic.
Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player
The implosion killed all five people on board - Titan operator Stockton Rush, who founded OceanGate, the company that owned the submersible; two members of a prominent Pakistani family, Shahzada Dawood and his son Suleman; British adventurer Hamish Harding; and Titanic expert and the sub's pilot, Paul-Henri Nargeolet.
This breaking news story is being updated and more details will be published shortly.
Please refresh the page for the latest version.
You can receive breaking news alerts on a smartphone or tablet via the Sky News app. You can also follow us on WhatsApp and subscribe to our YouTube channel to keep up with the latest news.