A scheme to curb so-called "cowboy cosmetics" is planned after procedures including liquid BBLs, involving large amounts of filler being injected into the buttocks, caused patients severe pain, disfigurement, and even death.
North of England correspondent
Thursday 7 August 2025 03:05, UK
Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player
A woman from Bolton whose daughter nearly died after a liquid BBL (Brazilian butt lift) procedure says she is "disappointed and upset" that plans to regulate the aesthetics industry could take years to become law.
Warning: This story contains pictures some may find distressing
Janet Taylor's daughter, Louise, was told by doctors that they may have to amputate her leg to save her life.
She was rushed to hospital for emergency surgery following the 2023 procedure, carried out by a non-medical practitioner.
"The sepsis was spreading fast, down her leg. They were preparing for amputation," Ms Taylor said.
"Louise was hysterical at this point. I got a call from her in the morning a few days after the procedure, explaining that she was going to die."
Louise had travelled from Bolton to Essex to have the procedure. But when she arrived, she was told that the person to whom she had paid her deposit would not be carrying it out.
She "screamed in pain" during the procedure, Ms Taylor said, and in the days afterwards had severe swelling and became unable to walk.
Admitted to A&E, doctors found she had developed sepsis and would need life-saving surgery.
Ministers have announced plans to change the law on the highest risk cosmetic procedures, including liquid BBLs, which involve large amounts of filler being injected into the buttocks.
Such procedures have caused patients severe pain and disfigurement, and even death.
Alice Webb, a 33-year-old mother-of-five, died from complications following a liquid BBL procedure in September.
Under new rules, only qualified medical professionals will be able to carry them out.
Currently, anyone can do them, even those without medical training.
The government says any changes will first have to go through a consultation process that will begin next year.
For Ms Taylor, that is not fast enough, leaving her "disappointed, annoyed and upset that it's going to take them so long".
"I'm sure years ago they said the same thing. I just feel it's history repeating itself," she said. "I don't understand - why can't they do it now when there are hundreds of people being affected?"
A licensing scheme for procedures classed as lower risk, like botulinum toxins and lip fillers is part of the plan, drawn up by the Department of Health.
The scheme will be managed by local councils, and the government will prioritise regulating high-risk procedures first.
These lower-risk procedures can also cause serious complications, however.
Last month, Sky News reported on several cases of botulism - a life-threatening illness - being caused by potentially illegal toxins being sold as Botox by non-medical practitioners.
Campaign groups and medical organisations have welcomed the plans.
Read more from Sky News:Trump could meet Putin next weekZoo feeds lions with baboons it killed
Ashton Collins, director of Save Face, which campaigns for greater aesthetics regulation, said it was "delighted" by the move.
"I think this is the right way," said Ms Collins. "They've taken on board the campaigning we have done over the last two years, warning about the highest risk treatments that are now being routinely performed on the high street.
"We warned in 2023 that there would be deaths without action. Unfortunately, that happened last year. So we are delighted that they are now restricting who can and can't do these surgical-type procedures."
Be the first to get Breaking News
Install the Sky News app for free
Health minister Karin Smyth said the cosmetics industry had been plagued by "a Wild West of dodgy practitioners and procedures. There are countless horror stories of cosmetic cowboys causing serious, catastrophic damage".
She said the government's Plan for Change will "protect those seeking treatments, support honest and competent practitioners, and root out the cowboys".
Keep up with all the latest news from the UK and around the world by following Sky News
Ms Smyth added: "This isn't about stopping anyone from getting treatments - it's about preventing rogue operators from exploiting people at the expense of their safety and keeping people safe.
"We're giving them peace of mind and reducing the cost to the NHS of fixing botched procedures."