A British man allegedly tried to drown his daughter-in-law in a pool in Florida after an argument over a will, according to police.
Mark Gibbon, 62, from Beaconsfield, was on a luxury family holiday at the Solterra Resort, which is not far from Disney World, when he allegedly started rowing with his daughter-in-law.
Gibbon and the 33-year-old disagreed about the "stipulations of his will", according to a probable cause arrest affidavit. The suspect allegedly "pushed her under the water and held her down multiple times," the complaint stated.
She reportedly tried to get away, but he kept pushing her back down. It comes as a woman is accused of using her children to try to trigger a severe allergic reaction in her ex-mother-in-law.
"She advised that she could not breathe and believed that she was going to drown," police wrote. "[The victim] advised that she had to fight Mark in order to get away from him and from under the water but he kept pushing her back under."
The daughter-in-law's 9-year-old daughter saw the alleged attempted drowning and "jumped into the pool" to her mum's defence, police say. She tried to stop her grandpa but he allegedly shoved her away.
Gibbon only stopped the attempted drowning after two sisters on holiday next door called police, according to authorities.
Cops arrived at the scene and took Gibbon into custody, where he allegedly admitted to pushing his daughter-in-law underwater but claimed he did not intend to drown her.
He claimed they were drinking when they started to discuss the will. Gibbon was arrested on charges of attempted second-degree murder and battery.
Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said Gibbon may be spending "a lot more time in Florida than he anticipated" after the alleged attack. He is due in court on September 9.
Mr Judd said holidaymakers must behave themselves if they visit Florida. "It's great that Polk County draws visitors from all across the world, but we expect vacationers to behave while they visit with us, just as we expect our lifelong residents to do the same," Judd added.
The incident comes after mum Tiffany Gregory is alleged to have asked her 8-year-old and 11-year-old kids to stomp on bell peppers, which would trigger a life-threatening reaction in her former partner's mum.
Gregory is accused of putting the crushed bell peppers in a birthday gift bag with a chilling note that read, "You ruined my life. Enjoy your allergic reaction b***h."
The mum allegedly had the children place the gift bag on the victim's doorstep. Fortunately, the mother-in-law was not injured because her husband found the bag first.
According to police, Gregory was arrested on several charges, including stalking, and unlawful transaction with a minor.
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.