This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Jared Allen, who was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, joins 'Fox & Friends' to discuss his heartfelt message crediting his faith and family for his success.
Pro Football Hall of Famer Jared Allen joined "Fox & Friends" on Tuesday morning to reflect on the emotional speech he delivered during his enshrinement ceremony, where he paid tribute to his Christian faith, his wife, and his daughters — making clear that life’s true priorities extend far beyond football.
"That's what my life's always been about. It's how I was raised. [They're] the most important things to me," he told co-hosts Ainsley Earhardt, Lawrence Jones and Charlie Hurt.
Over the weekend, the former Minnesota Vikings and Kansas City Chiefs star was enshrined in the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio, where he spoke movingly of his "walk with Christ" and addressed his wife and daughters directly.
BRAND NEW NFL HALL OF FAMER HAS WARDROBE MALFUNCTION DOING SIGNATURE SACK CELEBRATION
Jared Allen speaks during the 2025 Pro Football Hall of Fame Enshrinement Ceremony at Tom Benson Hall of Fame Stadium on August 02, 2025 in Canton, Ohio.  (Nick Cammett/Getty Images)
To his wife Amy, he said, "I am in awe of you every single day, and I love you more than life itself."
To his daughters, Brinley and Lakelyn, he said: "You two are my greatest accomplishments. When I get called home to heaven one day, if all they talk about is this gold jacket and my career, then I failed miserably as a father, a husband and a friend."
STERLING SHARPE RETURNS GOLD JACKET FAVOR, HONORS BROTHER SHANNON SHARPE IN HEARTFELT HALL OF FAME MOMENT
Jared Allen celebrates with his family after receiving his gold jacket at the 2025 Pro Football Hall of Fame Enshrinees’ Gold Jacket Dinner at Canton Memorial Civic Center.  (Scott Galvin-Imagn Images)
Allen said he never expected his heartfelt speech to have the impact it did, adding that he was trying to make some people laugh at points and give a good message to his children at others.
"The Bible tells us, you look at when Paul and Peter were in front of the Sanhedrin, and God said, 'Don't worry about what they say, I'll give you the word.' So for me, I was just trying to deliver a heartfelt speech to my family and my friends and my teammates and just let people know what I was about," he continued on Tuesday.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Allen's wife and daughters appreciated his shout-outs in the moment, but he hopes the message resonates even more deeply as the girls grow older.
"I'm hoping… they continue to look back on those moments and understand how to achieve greatness in whatever you do, not just athletics. I always tell my kids, you've just got to find your passion. You've got to chase it. Figure out what your purpose is and go after it with a full head of steam, and that's all I really want for them, so I hope that's what they take from it."
Taylor Penley is an associate editor with Fox News.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.