This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
R&B singer-songwriter Victoria Monét talked about becoming a mother and the pressure it put on her career in a new appearance on "IMO" with Michelle Obama & Craig Robinson.
The Fairfax County Public Schools system in Virginia has launched an investigation into accusations that school staff arranged abortions for students without notifying their parents, according to local reports.
School officials at Centreville High School in Union Hill allegedly arranged and bankrolled abortions for girls in 2021, including a 17-year-old, according to local news outlet WJLA.
"We learned yesterday of these concerning allegations from 2021," FCPS said in a statement to the outlet on Wednesday. "We are launching an immediate and comprehensive investigation as we take all concerns of student wellbeing very seriously."
VA REVERSES BIDEN ADMIN POLICY PROVIDING ABORTION SERVICES AGENCY CALLS CONTRARY TO FEDERAL LAW
Fairfax County Public Schools in Virginia launched an investigation into allegations that school staff arranged abortions for students without notifying their parents. (AP Photo/Matthew Barakat, File)
Pressed on whether FCPS staff have ever arranged abortions for students, including in this case, the district said it was not aware of any instances of the sort.
"Not to [our] knowledge. We have launched an immediate investigation into these concerns as soon as we were made aware," the district told WJLA.
EX-PLANNED PARENTHOOD DIRECTOR CELEBRATES CLOSURE OF HOUSTON FACILITIES: 'NOT SHOCKING'
School officials at Centreville High School allegedly arranged and bankrolled abortions for girls in 2021. (Getty Images)
FCPS policy states that "every effort shall be made to encourage and support students suspecting pregnancy to discuss their concerns with their parents or guardians." However, it does not say FCPS employees should inform parents about those conversations.
Fox News Digital has reached out to FCPS for additional comment.
One student allegedly provided with an abortion by Centreville High School staff in 2021 was 17 years old at the time, according to WJLA. (Google Earth)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Pro-life groups reacted to the "secretly arranged" abortions for students at Centreville High School.
"A Fairfax high school secretly arranged and paid for student abortions—without telling parents," 40 Days for Life wrote on X. "This isn’t 'healthcare.' It’s state-funded child exploitation. Every official involved must be held accountable."
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.