This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Fox News Flash top sports headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
Brock Lesnar made his shocking return to WWE on Sunday night at SummerSlam, interrupting John Cena’s farewell to fans at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.
Cena had just lost a brutal street fight to Cody Rhodes, losing his Undisputed WWE Championship in the process. He was taking a second to say goodbye when Lesnar’s music hit.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
Brock Lesnar enters the ring for WWE WrestleMania RAW at the Footprint Center on March 27, 2023 in Phoenix, Arizona, United States. (Alejandro Salazar/PX Images/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images)
The crowd went wild as Lesnar slowly walked down the ramp and confronted Cena. He hit Cena with his finishing move, the F5. He left the ring and clearly set up at least one more match between the two longtime rivals.
Lesnar is a 10-time WWE champion, one-time Money in the Bank winner and two-time Royal Rumble winner.
SUMMERSLAM NIGHT 1 DELIVERS SHOCKING SETH ROLLINS CASH IN
He had not been seen in WWE since 2023 following his feud with Rhodes when the "American Nightmare" was battling back to get to Roman Reigns on the road to WrestleMania 40. In between that time, Lesnar was named in a 2024 lawsuit that accused former WWE chairman Vince McMahon of sexual assault and sex trafficking.
Lesnar wasn’t listed as a defendant and wasn't charged with a crime. He hasn’t commented on the lawsuit.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The moment stunned the WWE Universe as it has felt like a very long time since Lesnar was seen in WWE circles. He hasn’t faced Cena since a triple-threat match with him and Seth Rollins at Royal Rumble 2015 and not in a singles match since Night of Champions 2014.
Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter.
Ryan Gaydos is a senior editor for Fox News Digital.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.