This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here.
Malin Akerman's latest role in "The Hunting Wives" was a dramatic turn from roles the actress typically takes on.
The Netflix series follows housewives in East Texas who welcome in a newcomer from Boston. The show is full of deception, raunchy scenes, secrets and murder. Akerman stars as Margo Banks and is married to oil tycoon-turned-politician hopeful Jed Banks (Dermot Mulroney). The star-studded cast also includes Brittany Snow, Chrissy Metz, Jaime Ray Newman and Katie Lowes.
Prior to "The Hunting Wives," Akerman was best known for her role as the wife of a hedge fund manager in "Billions." The seven-season series centered around "power politics in the world of New York high finance," per IMDb.
Malin Akerman and Dermot Mulroney in "The Hunting Wives." (Lionsgate)
She was also typically cast in rom-com movies, such as "27 Dresses," "Couples Retreat," and "The Proposal."
MEGHAN MARKLE, PRINCE HARRY FACE ‘PITIFUL PLUMMET IN POPULARITY’ AS THEY REPORTEDLY LOSE NETFLIX DEAL: EXPERT
Taking on the role of Margo, a seductive housewife that's full of secrets, was easy for Akerman. She told People that she "fell in love" with the character immediately and read all eight episodes right when she was sent the script.
Paul Giamatti, Maggie Siff, Malin Akerman, and Damian Lewis starred in Showtime's "Billions" series. (Taylor Hill/WireImage)
"I got to see her whole arc and see where she begins and where she came from and where she ends up, and it's just such a meaty role.
"She's a master manipulator, she's vibrant, she's sexy...she's all these things that are fun to play. There was just so much to work with there. There was no way I could say no to it," Akerman told the outlet.
"She's a master manipulator, she's vibrant, she's sexy...she's all these things that are fun to play. There was just so much to work with there. There was no way I could say no to it."
Akerman also discussed her on-screen husband, Jed Banks.
"I love Dermot so much. He's one of the loveliest humans. I mean, it's one of those things you go into it, and it's Dermot Mulroney, the heartthrob from 'My Best Friend's Wedding.' He is just an incredible human being," she told People.
Malin Akerman starred as Margo Banks in "The Hunting Wives." (Earl Gibson III/Deadline via Getty Images)
Throughout the seasons, viewers learn that Jed and Margo have an interesting marriage. Both parties are allowed to sleep with other women, but Margo is not allowed to sleep with other men.
LIKE WHAT YOU’RE READING? CLICK HERE FOR MORE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS
"Margo and Jed are really interesting because at first you just think she's this trophy wife, and she's living the life. But then, there are some scenes that get pretty complex where we see who is boss.
"She needs to make sure that she doesn't step on his toes because if she's out, then she's got nothing. It's life or death for her, this relationship with Jed," Akerman said.
Malin Akerman and Brittany Snow starred in Netflix's "The Hunting Wives." (Lionsgate)
Akerman's character Margo also changed after Jed announced his plans to run for governor of Texas.
"You see her kind of shift and go, 'All right, I've overstepped my boundaries.' So, she does have boundaries, which is interesting. As long as she's playful and sexy, though, she can stay. So, she's become a master manipulator, and that was really fun to play with Dermot. He's just such a great acting partner. We had a really good time," Akerman said.
She also mentioned her relationship with Sophie (Brittany Snow), the new girl from Boston. Their friendship sees them drinking and hunting, but it also turns romantic in the series.
Brittany Snow and Malin Akerman in "The Hunting Wives." (Lionsgate)
"We ended up just loving each other so much. I was so thankful to have her as my partner in crime. We just felt really comfortable with each other," Akerman said.
Even during their intimate scenes, Snow and Akerman were able to keep their friendship lighthearted.
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER
"They'd call cut, and we'd giggle and we'd be silly together after because you're just like, ‘Oh my God, this is crazy.’ It was just two girlfriends just doing the craziest things and having a blast together," she told People.
Akerman discussed her role with Elle and explained that although Margo is calculating and manipulative, she's hard to not watch.
Malin Akerman is hopeful "The Hunting Wives" will be renewed for a second season. (JC Olivera/Variety via Getty Images)
"Whether it’s controlling, hypocritical or whatever, there’s a freedom to her that I loved. I’m such a people pleaser, and sometimes I just want to go, ‘F--- it, stop. Just be free. Be wild.’ Margo’s on another level. That really stuck with me," she told the outlet.
Akerman is optimistic that Netflix will renew the series for a second season, especially with the show's shocking finale that "got everyone gasping," according to the star.
"She’s just too fun," she said of Margo. "It’s just fun to be taken on a ride—and that’s what this show is for."
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Janelle Ash is an entertainment writer for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to janelle.ash@fox.com.
Get a daily look at the top news in music, movies, television and more in the entertainment industry.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.