It's Monday, August 4, and one star sign has been working a little too hard, while another experiences a surge in emotional and physical energy.
There are 12 zodiac signs - Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces - and the horoscopes for each can give you the lowdown on what your future holds, be it in work, your love life, your friends and family or more.
These daily forecasts have been compiled by astrologer Russell Grant, who has been reading star signs for over 50 years. From Aries through to Pisces, here's what today could bring for your horoscope - and what you can do to be prepared.
Celebrate your accomplishments as you have achieved a lot since the year began. Everything you are hoping for is likely to manifest. Your partner will amaze you with their honesty and warmth. Expect a boost in your career that will leave you pleasantly surprised
You have a great opportunity to acquire something valuable and luxurious that you have been wanting for some time. The best part is that despite the cost, this will not jeopardise your financial stability. So why wait? Make that special purchase now.
Recent struggles in both business and personal relationships can be left behind. You are on the brink of a positive transformation and nothing can hold you back. How should you handle this emotional high? You need some time to yourself to take it all in.
Projects that allow you to work alone will go smoothly. Conversely, the charged atmosphere when you get together with others will make you uneasy. If you avoid stirring up conflict and are able to keep your emotions in check you should enjoy a calm end to the day.
You’ve been working hard but maybe too hard as this is starting to take its toll on your health. Stress, insufficient sleep and ongoing fatigue will lead to irritability and a lack of patience with others. To avoid becoming overwhelmed, allow yourself some much-needed time to rest.
It will feel like a coincidence when someone who is on your mind calls you or gets in touch through a social networking site. This person once held a special place in your life. A party invitation presents a wonderful opportunity to rekindle bonds with friends who were once very dear to you.
You won’t mind having to set aside your own responsibilities to help someone in need. This is just as well as you will soon receive a call from a friend seeking your guidance and support. With your natural altruism, you will respond quickly to their request for help.
People admire your skills and this makes you stand out among peers and colleagues. Your superiors appreciate your business mindset and you are seen as a valuable member of the team. So what’s holding you back from discussing a rise in salary with management?
Once more you get a chance to showcase your remarkable strengths. You shine as a capable leader, exceptional thinker and someone with a unique perspective on business. By this evening, you will have another achievement to celebrate with your family.
A surge in emotional and physical energy will prompt you to act on ideas you have been considering recently. A lot is likely to get done while you are in such high spirits. The end of the day is favourable for re-assessing your values and setting new priorities that promote continued progress.
You get on well with everyone. In fact, you enjoy mixing with people from all walks of life. This enables you to encourage a group of diverse characters to find a common ground. No one expected a project to be so successful and this is all due to your positive contribution.
You need to make better choices when it comes to your health and daily habits. It’s essential to get a minimum of eight hours of sleep each night. Balance your work with leisure and follow a nutritious diet. A lack of energy should not be overlooked as your well-being will influence the success of ongoing projects.
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.