The statement says a community gathering to remember Lynae and Elias is scheduled for Sunday at Comox Marina Park, and the family is thanking the public for their support.
Author of the article:
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
COMOX — The family of a young mother and her five-month-old son killed by a falling tree at a Vancouver Island campground a week ago say they are “heartbroken” by the tragedy.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
In a statement provided through the Comox Valley RCMP, the family thanks emergency responders and others on the beach at Cumberland Lake Park Campground who tried to save the pair on July 31.
The statement identifies the victims as Lynae and Elias, without providing their last names.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sunrise will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
A photo of the mother and child has also been released by the family and was provided by police.
The statement says a community gathering to remember Lynae and Elias is scheduled for Sunday at Comox Marina Park, and the family is thanking the public for their support.
Police said last week that the 26-year-old mother died at the scene while the baby was taken to hospital but did not survive.
RCMP say no criminality is suspected in the deaths.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.