Prime Minister makes quip about contentious decision during tour of Canadian Navy facility on Vancouver Island
Author of the article:
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
NANOOSE BAY — Prime Minister Mark Carney continued his visit to B.C. on Monday as he toured the Canadian Forces Maritime Experimental and Test Ranges facility on Vancouver Island.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Wearing a navy blue suit, Carney visited the facility near Nanoose Bay, about 30 kilometres north of Nanaimo, for about 2 1/2 hours, during which he toured the Royal Canadian Navy vessel Sikanni.
A statement from the Prime Minister’s Office says Carney’s visit aimed to highlight Canada’s plan to rebuild, rearm and reinvest in the Canadian Armed Forces.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sunrise will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
It adds Carney also used the visit to thank Canadian navy members serving on the West Coast.
He was accompanied by Navy Commander Vice-Admiral Angus Topshee and Commanding Officer Craig Piccolo from the testing facility. They also joined Carney on a tour of the facility’s Range Operation Centre.
“Fire one,” he mused as he peered through binoculars and pretended to fire a torpedo, drawing laughter from those present.
Carney marvelled at the strength of binoculars and joked about what he could see.
“I see a ferry,” he said, quickly adding, “Not Chinese-made.”
Carney’s comment is in reference to B.C. Ferries, the private company owned by the provincial government that recently bought four ferries from a Chinese shipyard.
While the company has said the shipyard offered the best deal, it has drawn criticism from Premier David Eby and federal Internal Trade Minister Chrystia Freeland.
Carney left the facility by car, driving past a group of demonstrators with the Freedom From War Coalition. They held up Palestinian flags and signs calling on Canada to impose an arms embargo on Israel.
One of them, Eden Haythornthwaite, said Carney’s plan to spend more money on the military runs counter to the wishes and needs of Canadians, who want to see more money spent on public housing and education among other items.
“We don’t need a whole bunch of armaments,” she said.
Canada’s commitment under NATO’s new defence spending targets for actual hardware and infrastructure could cost up to $150 billion.
Juljana Zeqollari questioned Carney’s recent announcement that Canada’s government plans to recognize a Palestinian state.
“In the meantime, they are sending bombs and military shipments to Israel to commit genocide,” she said.
Carney did not take questions from media and did not meet with people like Brenton Thompson and Bill MacArthur, who were hoping to catch a glimpse of him.
“That was underwhelming,” Thompson said.
The tour marked a continuation of his visit to B.C.
On Sunday, Carney met with Eby as well as officials from the Vancouver Fraser Port Authority. Carney and Eby discussed U.S. tariffs and a renewed animosity in the long-running softwood lumber dispute.
After the meetings, Carney made a surprise appearance at Vancouver’s Pride Parade, marching for about a kilometre along the route beginning outside B.C. Place Stadium.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.