Save up to 74%
Subscribe to Kiplinger
ESPN will take control of NFL Network and RedZone, while the NFL secures a 10% stake in ESPN — a move that could change how fans watch football.
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
Sports fans could see changes in how they view NFL games and related content, thanks to a pending acquisition announced this week. ESPN plans to acquire the NFL Network, among other distribution rights, which could reshape the sports streaming era.
The move would consolidate much of the NFL’s media presence under one brand, giving ESPN control over how professional football is broadcast and streamed. The deal could impact cable providers, competing sports networks and even how fans choose their streaming subscriptions.
Though the ESPN NFL Network deal has been in talks for years, the NFL announced a nonbinding agreement on Tuesday as the deal moves forward.
Be a smarter, better informed investor.
Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and more - straight to your e-mail.
Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice - straight to your e-mail.
According to information shared with AP News, under the terms of the agreement, ESPN will receive the following:
The agreement means several changes to how you can view NFL games. The NFL Network will continue to air seven games each season, but four ESPN games would air on the NFL Network. ESPN will also license three more games to air on the NFL Network.
In exchange, the NFL will get a 10% equity stake in ESPN. That 10% equity deal is part of the NFL’s efforts to reach a target annual revenue of $25 billion by 2027.
Catch live sports and ESPN+ Originals.  Subscribe and save when you bundle with Disney+ and Hulu.
The acquisition marks a major shift in the sports streaming services industry. With the acquisition, Disney’s ESPN network will gain control of nearly all NFL content, positioning ESPN as the go-to for everything from Thursday Night Football to the RedZone channel.
Owning the distribution rights of NFL content also virtually eliminates ESPN’s competition; if football fans want to watch NFL content, they’ll find it on ESPN.
The move is a strategic one for ESPN, since it adds value to its new direct-to-consumer streaming service, which launches this September.
"We are providing everything ESPN has to offer directly to fans and all in one place," ESPN chairman Jimmy Pitaro said of the new service. "Our straightforward approach to name and pricing will help fans cut through the clutter, and provide them compelling options to access all our content within the enhanced ESPN App. It will be the ultimate sports destination for personalized experiences and features, and, on top of that, fans will be able to choose to bundle ESPN with the industry-leading Disney+ and Hulu streaming services."
The service, which will operate under the ESPN name, will give users access to:
The ESPN App will also see upgrades, such as enhanced betting features and statistical analysis.
An annual subscription to the ESPN streaming service will cost $299 per year. There is also a select plan, including ESPN+ content, for $11.99 per month or $119 per year.
Users can also save with an introductory offer for a bundle of ESPN, Disney+, and Hulu for $29.99 per month for the first year.
Be first to gear up with the Sideline Cap Collection from the official NFL Shop. Designed for warm-weather performance, it’s the same headwear worn on the field.
Viewers won’t see any immediate changes from the ESPN NFL Network purchase. Though the NFL Network sale is progressing, the final agreement still needs to be negotiated, and NFL owners must approve of the terms. Then, the agreement must receive regulatory approval before the sale can take place, so it’s unlikely that you’ll see changes until next year.
In the meantime, ESPN will launch its new streaming service in September. The plan’s introductory offer may be a good way to test it out, especially if you’re an NFL fan and want to prepare for the upcoming changes that will come to viewing the games, NFL RedZone and NFL Fantasy Football.
Profit and prosper with the best of Kiplinger's advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and much more. Delivered daily. Enter your email in the box and click Sign Me Up.
Paige Cerulli is a freelance journalist and content writer with more than 15 years of experience. She specializes in personal finance, health, and commerce content. Paige majored in English and music performance at Westfield State University and has received numerous awards for her creative nonfiction. Her work has appeared in The U.S. News & World Report, USA Today, GOBankingRates, Top Ten Reviews, TIME Stamped Shopping and more. In her spare time, Paige enjoys horseback riding, photography and playing the flute. Connect with her on LinkedIn.
The iPhone maker will boost its U.S. investment by $100 billion, which sent the Dow Jones stock soaring.
The Kiplinger Letter
As business adoption of AI picks up, employee morale could take a hit. But there are ways to avoid an AI backlash.
Most medications come from Europe. Does that mean the new tariffs on the EU will drive drug prices higher?
Ford now expects a $3 billion tariff hit this year — pushing up costs on parts, altering vehicle pricing and narrowing dealer discounts even as sales stay strong.
From missed alarms to unresponsive commands, Google’s smart home tech is leaving users in the lurch.
A reporter uses AI to review privacy policies, in an effort to better protect herself from fraud and scams.
Peacock announced it will raise its plan prices starting in July. Here's how much they'll charge and ways to save if you want to keep it.
With rising costs and evolving technology, many are rethinking their home phone service. Here's how to decide if it's time to let go.
A major infusion of state funds revives Florida's flagship home-hardening grant program to protect homeowners and potentially lower insurance costs.
Not all advisers are created equal. Here's how to find one qualified to manage your wealth and protect your legacy. From verifying credentials to trusting your gut, follow these rules to find a financial adviser.
Kiplinger is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.