Fraser Health is implementing a 'temporary service interruption' beginning at 7 p.m. Monday until 6:30 a.m. Tuesday morning after an unexpected doctor illness
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
Delta Hospital’s emergency room was closed on Monday night due to a sudden doctor shortage.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
In a news release issued just before 6 p.m. Monday, Fraser Health said it was implementing a “temporary service interruption” beginning at 7 p.m. until 6:30 a.m. Tuesday morning after an unexpected doctor illness. All patients already in the emergency department would be seen by a doctor before end of shift Monday night, the health authority said.
After 7 p.m., nurses would continue to be on site to support walk-in patients needing basic care and to assist with redirecting or transferring patients with urgent needs to nearby hospitals.
Start your day with a roundup of B.C.-focused news and opinion.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sunrise will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
The service interruption affected only the emergency department at Delta Hospital, Fraser Health said.
All other Fraser Health emergency rooms remained open. However, patients with non-urgent care concerns were told to expect longer-than-usual wait times due to “high numbers of people seeking care” and “human resources challenges.”
Delta Hospital’s emergency room closed for two consecutive nights in February due a doctor shortage.
Emergency room closures have become commonplace in B.C. in recent years. The opposition B.C. Conservatives used question period in February to highlight 1,407 closures, of various lengths in days, at 20 hospitals over the past two years of Premier David Eby’s NDP government.
mraptis@postmedia.com
x.com/mike_raptis
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.