Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.
Advertisement
French National Institute for Agriculture, Food, and Environment, Cestas, France.
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
French National Institute for Agriculture, Food, and Environment, Cestas, France.
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
French National Centre for Scientific Research, Montpellier, France.
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
University of Évora, Évora, Portugal.
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
At the third United Nations Ocean Conference in June, UN member states committed to reducing the flow of pollutants from rivers to oceans (see go.nature.com/44yengt). But discussions missed a key factor in how land and sea are connected — through the migratory fish, birds and marine mammals, such as seals, that move between oceans or rivers and land (S. A. Sandin et al. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 119, e2122354119; 2022).
Access Nature and 54 other Nature Portfolio journals
Get Nature+, our best-value online-access subscription
£17.99 / 30 days
cancel any time
Subscribe to this journal
Receive 51 print issues and online access
£199.00 per year
only £3.90 per issue
Rent or buy this article
Prices vary by article type
from$1.95
to$39.95
Prices may be subject to local taxes which are calculated during checkout
Nature 644, 41 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02475-0
The authors declare no competing interests.
Why we should protect the high seas from all extraction, forever
European Union’s strict conservation targets should guide global marine policy
See more letters to the editor
Flourishing chemosynthetic life at the greatest depths of hadal trenches
Article 30 JUL 25
Millions of tonnes of nanoplastics are polluting the ocean
News Explainer 09 JUL 25
Bowhead whale faeces link increasing algal toxins in the Arctic to ocean warming
Article 09 JUL 25
What it’s like fighting racism and sexism in shark science
Career Q&A 04 AUG 25
Researchers in dismay as US exits world science body UNESCO … again
News 23 JUL 25
Global hotspots of mycorrhizal fungal richness are poorly protected
Article 23 JUL 25
Dean of the Medical School Dean of the School of Life Sciences
Nanjing, Jiangsu (CN)
Nanjing University
Founding Dean of the School of Robotics and Automation; School of Biomedical Engineering; School of Mechanical and Advanced Manufacturing.
Suzhou, Jiangsu (CN)
Nanjing University
NTU AI4X-PDF empowers early-career researchers to harness AI for breakthroughs in STEM, fostering innovation and boosting Singapore’s AI ecosystem
Singapore (SG)
Nanyang Technological University (NTU)
Postdoc opportunity to engage in both foundational machine learning research and high-impact interdisciplinary applications in the life sciences.
Vienna, Austria
AITHYRA GmbH - Research Institute for Biomedical Artificial Intelligence of the Austrian Academy of Sciences
Shenzhen, Guangdong (CN)
Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation
Why we should protect the high seas from all extraction, forever
European Union’s strict conservation targets should guide global marine policy
See more letters to the editor
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Nature
                    
                    (Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited