Storm Floris is expected to bring travel disruption to the UK on Monday, with an amber weather warning set to come into force.
Some train and ferry services have already been cancelled with more likely to be impacted, including air and road transport.
High winds could pose a "danger to life", with most of Scotland facing an amber weather warning, which will kick in at 10:00 BST and last through to 22:00.
There is also a yellow warning across northern England, north Wales and Northern Ireland from 06:00 BST through to midnight.
The Met Office has predicted damage to buildings, coastlines and trees due to storm conditions.
That yellow warning area includes Yorkshire and Humber, north Wales, North West England, North East England, Northern Ireland and all of Scotland including Orkney and the Shetland Islands.
Many inland areas are likely to see gusts of 40 to 50mph with 60 to 70mph possible along exposed coasts and high ground.
Storm Floris is the sixth named storm of the 2024/25 season, and the first since January.
Operator LNER warned passengers not to travel north of Newcastle on Monday. It said those intending to travel on Monday could do so on Sunday, and tickets would also be valid until Wednesday.
Avanti West Coast advised passengers not to travel north of Preston on Monday, saying tickets will be accepted on Sunday and Tuesday.
Network Rail said several lines in Scotland would be closed from 12pm on Monday, with all other routes experiencing a reduced timetable and longer journey times.
Scottish ferry operator CalMac has issued a series of cancellation warnings ahead of the storm.
In a post on X it said: "Disruption to sailings is expected across our network on Monday, August 4 due to forecasted strong winds across parts of Scotland's west coast."
Meanwhile, motorists are urged to slow down in poor weather and avoid exposed Highland and coastal routes.
Rod Dennis, from breakdown service RAC, said: "It's the height of the holiday season, so those towing trailers and caravans, as well as those with roof and tent boxes, must ensure their loads are properly secured."
Scottish Transport Secretary Fiona Hyslop said a meeting had been held on Friday to ensure Scotland was ready for the storm.
"Given the unusual timing, and the fact some people will be on holiday, travelling or perhaps unaware, we are trying to raise even more awareness than usual of this potentially disruptive storm."
She added: "This is a slightly unusual situation for August, however the message is the same as winter - plan ahead, check your journey in advance, allow extra time and don't take any unnecessary risks."
National Rail has warned that speed restrictions are likely and warned journey delays and cancellations are possible.
Strong winds can also bring down trees that block tracks and damage power lines.
Named storms in August are not that rare.
Last year, Storm Lilian struck the UK on 23 August just before the bank holiday weekend, closing stages at the Leeds Festival and cancelling Heathrow flights.
In 2023, Storm Antoni brought wet and very windy weather to south Wales and south-west England affecting events such as Brighton and Plymouth Pride. Less than two weeks later Storm Betty brought further disruption.
In 2020 there were also two August storms - Ellen and Francis - that the Met Office describes as "two of the most notable August storms in the last 50 years".
These two storms brought wind gusts of 79mph and 81mph respectively with transport disruption, coastal flooding and power cuts.
The storm follows the UK's fifth warmest July on record, according to provisional figures from the Met Office.
All four UK nations recorded one of their 10 warmest Julys, and July was the sixth consecutive month of above-average mean temperatures for the UK, the Met Office said.
The first day of the month brought the highest temperature of the year so far, with 35.8C in Faversham, Kent.
Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.