This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Danny Parkins ranks the best teams in the NFL, including the Los Angeles Chargers, Washington Commanders and Philadelphia Eagles.
ESPN will acquire the NFL Network and other media assets, including the popular RedZone channel, from the NFL.
In exchange, the league will receive a 10% equity stake in the sports network as part of a landmark agreement, the two sides announced Tuesday.
The shift in control sparked some fear among football fans about whether the deal would lead to changes.
But one thing that doesn't appear to be changing anytime soon is the RedZone host. Scott Hanson, who has anchored RedZone since 2009, took to social media to ease concerns about his role for the 2025 season.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
NFL Network host Scott Hanson presents on stage at the 2023 NFL Draft at Union Station April 29, 2023, in Kansas City, Mo.  (Kevin Sabitus/Getty Images)
Hanson confirmed he would resume his normal hosting duties for the upcoming season. He also expressed optimism about the deal between ESPN and the NFL.
"It’s official. (& for those wondering:  yes, I will still be hosting RedZone.) Fired up for a great season! Optimistic about this new partnership!" Hanson wrote on X.
2025 NFL PRESEASON BUZZ: JAGUARS DT ARIK ARMSTEAD SIDELINED BY BACK INJURY
Hanson's popularity with viewers has grown over the years, and he's received praise for his memorable catchphrases. His contract with NFL Media reportedly expired at the end of last season. Hanson confirmed he negotiated a new deal, allowing him to return for the 2025 season.
Host Scott Hanson speaks on stage during round four of the 2022 NFL Draft April 30, 2022, in Las Vegas. (David Becker/Getty Images)
Under the agreement, the NFL will continue to own, operate and produce RedZone channel programming from its studios in Southern California. ESPN will handle cable and satellite distrubution, while the league will retain the rights to distribute it on digital platforms.
The ESPN logo (Mike Windle/Getty Images for ESPN)
"By combining these NFL media assets with ESPN's reach and innovation, we're creating a premier destination for football fans," ESPN Chairman Jimmy Pitaro said in a statement. "Together, ESPN and the NFL are redefining how fans engage with the game — anytime, anywhere. This deal helps fuel ESPN's digital future, laying the foundation for an even more robust offering as we prepare to launch our new direct-to-consumer service."
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
NFL Network is expected to be added to ESPN's upcoming direct-to-consumer streaming service. The service is scheduled to launch this fall and will offer access to ESPN's portfolio of professional and college sports.
Fox News' Landon Mion contributed to this report.
Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X, and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter.
Chantz Martin is a sports writer for Fox News Digital.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        Refinitiv Lipper.