Three in 10 Brits are being held back from doing what they want to do in life due to the fear of being judged by others according to a new survey. Two thirds say they have never done the one thing they have always dreamed of because they always play it safe, with 65 per cent labelling themselves as 'risk-averse'.
The survey discovered that over half wish they had a more spontaneous life, with many describing themselves as cautious, reserved or predictable. A quarter of adults said they feel trapped in their daily grind and 45 per cent confess to being creatures of habit.
The study was initiated by Beavertown, which is challenging Britons to shake things up this bank holiday by offering them a chance to win a ride in The Skulloon Tavern, an extraordinary hot air balloon that doubles as a tavern. It comes after a British man claimed 'I moved from UK to Benidorm – price of a pint and Full English left me floored'.
Octopus 'climbs out of aquarium tank' and 'tries to eat boy, 6,' in front of his mum.
Mum was left 'traumatised' after a dog walker pushes her in canal as she cycles to work.
Scheduled to ascend on Saturday, 23rd August, The Skulloon Tavern promises a pub experience that's quite literally elevated.
Tom Rainsford, spokesperson for Beavertown said: “We are a nation of people holding ourselves back.
“But we believe life gets a lot more interesting when you stick your neck out, embrace spontaneity, and dare to do things differently.”
Over two thirds admit they do the same thing every August Bank Holiday, despite 46 per cent wishing they could be more spontaneous during the extended weekend.
Other reasons for sticking to the same routine included a fear of failure (30 per cent) and a reluctance to step out of their comfort zone (21 per cent), according to respondents.
Based on data from OnePoll.com, 22 per cent of individuals have maintained the same routine for an extended period.
While 36 per cent of people find their daily routine comforting and 16 per cent consider it fulfilling, over half at 51 per cent wish they could be more spontaneous.
Tom Rainsford added: “Too often, we stick to what we know out of habit or convenience but exciting things rarely happen when we play it safe.”
“That’s why we’re shaking things up this bank holiday - with almost a third of the UK listing a trip to the pub as their non-negotiable bank holiday plan, we thought we’d give you the chance to enjoy a pint a bit further north of your usual beer garden.”
“Why settle for ground-level plans when you can take things to a whole new height?”
At  Reach and across our entities  we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site, analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising. You can opt out of the saleor sharing of your data, at any time clicking the &quot;Do Not Sell or Share my Data&quot; button at the bottom of the webpage. Please note that your preferences are browser specific. Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Privacy Notice.