Train operator LNER has warned passengers not to travel north of Newcastle due to Storm Floris, while Avanti West Coast has advised its customers not to travel north of Preston as it will be "heavily affected" by the weather.
Monday 4 August 2025 03:27, UK
Storm Floris is nearing the UK - with train companies in the hardest-hit areas urging passengers not to travel today.
The Met Office has issued an amber "danger to life" warning for wind in parts of Scotland, with gusts of up to 90mph possible.
That alert is in force from 10am until 10pm, with forecasters warning "unusually strong" winds could close roads and damage buildings.
Check the latest weather forecast here
A wider yellow warning - covering the North of England and Northern Ireland - is also active between 6am this morning and 11.59pm tonight.
Train operator LNER has warned passengers not to travel north of Newcastle, while Avanti West Coast has advised its customers not to travel north of Preston as it will be "heavily affected" by the weather.
"We're expecting heavy rain and high winds to result in disruption of services," LNER said in a statement.
Parts of UK could see half a month's rainfall in a day
UK weather: Amber warning for thunderstorms comes into force for London and parts of southern England
UK weather: Temperatures set to hit 30C in parts of UK this week
Some trains have already been cancelled in Scotland, with Network Rail saying several lines will be closed from 12pm. Other routes will run with a reduced timetable and longer journey times.
Among the routes set to close at midday are Edinburgh to Fife, Perth to Dundee, and Aberdeen to Inverness, as well as the West Highland Line.
The storm could also lead to road closures - and several ferry services have already been cancelled by Scottish operator CalMac.
The Met Office said that much of Scotland, particularly western coastal areas, will be battered by heavy rain and windy conditions.
The strongest gusts are expected this afternoon and into the evening - but a Met Office spokesperson warned "there remains some uncertainty in the depth and track of Floris".
Sky News' weather presenter Jo Wheeler said: "Storm Floris is likely to bring a spell of weather not usually associated with the height of summer.
"Travelling across the Atlantic, this otherwise unremarkable, low-pressure system will cross a powerful jet stream, exiting on the cold side, renowned for storm formation."
Read more from Sky News:Martin Lewis: Who is due for car finance compensationTwo arrested on suspicion of murder over fatal London stabbing
Follow our channel and never miss an update
She said inland gusts of 50mph to 60mph are widely possible, potentially reaching 80mph to 90mph over exposed coasts, hills and bridges.
"The rain associated with this storm will largely clear through early tomorrow, but it's as the rain goes that the winds start to strengthen," she warned.