Finding fame in hippie era folk trio Pied Pumpkin, the musician, children's entertainer, actor and instrument builder became a mainstay in Canadian music and theatre
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
Reviews and recommendations are unbiased and products are independently selected. Postmedia may earn an affiliate commission from purchases made through links on this page.
Reviews and recommendations are unbiased and products are independently selected. Postmedia may earn an affiliate commission from purchases made through links on this page.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
B.C.-based folk musician, actor and luthier Rick Scott has died. The beloved musician died on Aug. 1 at age 77.
Born Richard Gaston Scott II in New Jersey and raised in both New York and Texas, Scott relocated to Canada in 1970 after military service in the U.S. army. Scott would go on to become a fixture on the vibrant Canadian folk music scene with his signature Appalachian mountain dulcimer.
With this trusty four-stringed instrument in hand, Scott played everywhere, from dives to concert halls across a dozen countries, both as a solo act and as a member of legendary hippie-era trio Pied Pumkin.
Get top headlines and gossip from the world of celebrity and entertainment.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sun Spots will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
He continued performing with Pied Pumkin String Ensemble, Pied Pear, the Lotus Eaters, the Rick Scott Band, Essig and Scott and Roots & Grooves. Over five decades, Scott released 19 albums, ranging from adult to children’s music, always delivered with bright-eyed honesty and wry wit.
Chilliwack’s Bill Henderson called Scott “the master of rhythm and joy.”
The three-time Juno Award nominee received the B.C. Live Touring Award of Excellence this year. Scott was also honoured as a member of the B.C. Entertainment Hall of Fame with a plaque on Granville Street, where he first began busking in Vancouver.
His first professional engagement came through writing and performing the score for director Ryan Larkin’s animated 1971 film Street Musique. In it, he appears live and is transformed into a cartoon while performing the song Crystal Clog. The segment was excerpted in the 2004 Academy Award-winning tribute film Ryan.
After that experience, Scott spent a year honing his chops in Tokyo before returning to Vancouver to join musicians Shari Ulrich and Joe Mock to form Pied Pumkin. Combining upbeat grooves, perfect harmonies and a healthy sense of the absurd, the group would tour widely, establishing itself as a successful indie act. They reformed in 2019 to play a Rogue Folk Club gig in honour of Scott’s induction into the B.C. Entertainment Hall of Fame.
During the 1980s, Scott was a regular on Metro Vancouver stages, creating and starring in title roles such as the Late Blumer and Barnum, for which he learned to walk tightrope. After a two-year run of the hit Angry Housewives at the Arts Club Theatre, he began playing concerts in schools. This launched him into children’s entertainment.
Scott and partner Valley Hennell released their debut children’s album, Electric Snowshoe, in 1989 on the independent Jester Records label and toured Canada and southeast Asia.
Through the 1990s, Scott averaged 100-plus family performances a year, becoming a mainstay at children’s festivals and on radio and TV programs.
In 1991, the Vancouver Symphony commissioned Scott to create a concert introducing children to Mozart, which inspired the Yo Mo Concerto, one of his most-requested songs.
His nine children’s recordings have sold more than 100,000 copies, with honours including NAPPA Gold, Parents’ Choice, Family Choice, Children’s Music Web, Western Canadian and Canadian Folk Music Awards.
In 1995, Scott penned Angels Do for his granddaughter, who has Down syndrome. The tune became a feature on Treehouse TV’s Ants in Your Pants program for the next decade. Scott became a goodwill ambassador for the Down Syndrome Resource Foundation.
Health issues interrupted Scott’s performing career in 2023, but he kept busy at home on Protection Island as curator of the Protection Island Museum, as well as hosting a free YouTube channel about constructing and playing Appalachian mountain dulcimers.
Scott had started building the instruments in the style of his friend and mentor, J.R. Stone, posting at Youtube.com/@RickScottDulcimer.
Scott is survived by his family and grandchildren.
sderdeyn@postmedia.com
Love concerts, but can't make it to the venue? Stream live shows and events from your couch with VEEPS, a music-first streaming service now operating in Canada. Click here for an introductory offer of 30% off. Explore upcoming concerts and the extensive archive of past performances.
Love concerts, but can't make it to the venue? Stream live shows and events from your couch with VEEPS, a music-first streaming service now operating in Canada. Click here for an introductory offer of 30% off. Explore upcoming concerts and the extensive archive of past performances.
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.