The pilot agreement, which was announced during Emmanuel Macron's state visit to the UK last month, will see some people who have crossed the Channel sent back to France in exchange for taking some asylum seekers with ties to Britain.
Tuesday 5 August 2025 07:53, UK
Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player
Sir Keir Starmer and Emmanuel Macron's migrant deal comes into force today, with detentions set to begin by the end of the week.
The "one in, one out" pilot scheme - which allows the UK to send some people who have crossed the Channel back to France in exchange for asylum seekers with ties to Britain - was signed last week, and has now been approved by the European Commission.
Home Secretary Yvette Cooper told Sky News Breakfast with Kamali Melbourne that this will apply to new entires, rather than those already here, who will be "detained immediately upon arrival".
She declined to say how many people could ultimately be sent back to France, saying that would benefit people smugglers who would operate around the numbers.
"Part of what we're doing here is trialling the concept," she said.
Politics Hub: Follow live updates
It comes as 2025 is on course to be a record year for crossings.
Approximately 25,436 people have already made the journey this year, according to PA news agency analysis of Home Office figures - 49% higher than at the same point in 2024.
The prime minister and the French president hailed the deal as a "good agreement" when it was first announced during the latter's visit to the UK last month.
Follow our channel and never miss an update
The scheme also means that anyone arriving in a small boat can be detained immediately, with space set aside at immigration removal centres in anticipation of their arrival.
Sir Keir said the ratification of the treaty will "send a clear message - if you come here illegally on a small boat you will face being sent back to France".
Ministers have so far declined to say how many people could be returned under the deal, however, there have been reports that under the scheme only 50 people a week will be returned to France.
Analysis: Deal will need to go much further to work
Sky News political correspondent Rob Powell said while it was a "policy win" for the government, the numbers must eventually "go a lot higher" than 50 per week if it is to work as a deterrent.
"The average crossing rate is about 800 a week, so this will need to go up by a sizeable factor for that message to start seeping through to people trying to make that crossing," Powell added.
The aim will be to make asylum seekers believe the "risk of going back to France is so big that they shouldn't bother parting with their cash and paying smugglers" to make the crossing.
Read more:What is the UK-France migrant returns deal?Clampdown on social media ads for Channel crossings unveiled
The Conservatives have branded the agreement a "surrender deal" and said it will make "no difference whatsoever".
Under the terms of the agreement, adults arriving on small boats will face being returned to France if their asylum claim is inadmissible.
In exchange, the same number of people will be able to come to the UK on a new legal route, provided they have not attempted a crossing before and subject to stringent documentation and security checks.
The pilot scheme is set to run until June 2026, pending a longer-term agreement.
Home Secretary Yvette Cooper will face questions on the agreement on Sky News Breakfast this morning.