Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.
Advertisement
Zhejiang Institute of Freshwater Fisheries, Huzhou, Zhejiang, China.
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
Zhejiang Institute of Freshwater Fisheries, Huzhou, Zhejiang, China.
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
Farming of giant prawns (Macrobrachium rosenbergii) is a booming industry, worth more than US$2.45 billion. But the gene pool from which prawns are bred is narrowing. China farms more than half of all giant prawns, depending entirely on cultured strains that have substantially less genetic diversity than do wild populations (Q. Shen et al. Aquac. Rep. 38, 102356; 2024) — and so are more susceptible to disease. By contrast, countries such as India, which mainly uses wild, genetically diverse prawns, rather than strains bred for desirable traits, are struggling with low larval survival and yields (B. R. Pillai and D. Panda J. Aquac. 33, 1–14; 2024).
Access Nature and 54 other Nature Portfolio journals
Get Nature+, our best-value online-access subscription
£17.99 / 30 days
cancel any time
Subscribe to this journal
Receive 51 print issues and online access
£199.00 per year
only £3.90 per issue
Rent or buy this article
Prices vary by article type
from$1.95
to$39.95
Prices may be subject to local taxes which are calculated during checkout
Nature 644, 41 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02477-y
The authors declare no competing interests.
Why we should protect the high seas from all extraction, forever
A message from island leaders: protect the Pacific Ocean from deep-sea mining
See more letters to the editor
Is your AI benchmark lying to you?
Technology Feature 06 AUG 25
This company claimed to ‘de-extinct’ dire wolves. Then the fighting started.
News Feature 04 AUG 25
The tiny mouse lemur could make for a mighty model organism
News & Views 30 JUL 25
Why space foods aren’t just for space
Comment 28 JUL 25
Recording my research led to a photojournalism career
Career Q&A 13 JUN 25
Salmon’s moveable feast of nutrients with a side order of contaminants
News & Views 09 OCT 24
To save lives in heatwaves, focus on how human bodies work
Comment 04 AUG 25
Powerful satellite will map changes on Earth in stunning detail — down to a centimetre
News 30 JUL 25
Securing the forest carbon sink for the European Union’s climate ambition
Perspective 30 JUL 25
AI4I is seeking to appoint the Founding Heads of its Research & Development Labs.
Turin (IT)
Fondazione Istituto Italiano di tecnologia
Title:  Associate or Senior Editor (Thermoelectrics & Thermal Engineering) Location: Shanghai, Nanjing, Beijing, Madrid, Milan, New York, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Nanjing, Beijing, Madrid, Milan, New York, Jersey City, or Washington DC
Springer Nature Ltd
Job Title:  Deputy Editor, Communications Health   Locations: New York, Jersey City, Shanghai or Beijing (Hybrid working model)  Application Deadli...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Postdoctoral fellow to study multimodal omics integration in neurodegeneration.
Baltimore, Maryland
Johns Hopkins University - BrainSigns Lab
Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Reviews Earth & Environment Organization: Nature Portfolio Locations: New York or Shanghai -Hybrid Workin...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Why we should protect the high seas from all extraction, forever
A message from island leaders: protect the Pacific Ocean from deep-sea mining
See more letters to the editor
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Nature
                    
                    (Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited