July 19, 2025e-Paper
The View From India
									Looking at World Affairs from the Indian perspective.
First Day First Show
									News and reviews from the world of cinema and streaming.
Today's Cache
									Your download of the top 5 technology stories of the day.
Science For All
									The weekly newsletter from science writers takes the jargon out of science and puts the fun in!
Data Point
									Decoding the headlines with facts, figures, and numbers
Health Matters
									Ramya Kannan writes to you on getting to good health, and staying there
The Hindu On Books
									Books of the week, reviews, excerpts, new titles and features.
July 19, 2025e-Paper
Published - April 12, 2021 08:51 pm IST - Madurai
The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed criminal proceedings against three DMK functionaries pending before trial courts in Dindigul and Virudhunagar districts. The DMK members had made remarks on the personal life of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa.
The court was hearing separate petitions filed by Aarur Senthamilan who sought to quash the proceedings pending before Dindigul court and that of Kuttus Gurusamy and Illa Pugalenthi who sought to quash the proceedings pending before the Srivilliputtur court in Virudhunagar district.
In both the cases, the Public Prosecutor filed a private complaint against the petitioners and sanction for prosecution was obtained as per Section 199 (4) CrPC. The petitioners argued that the public prosecutor was not competent to file the private complaint on behalf of the Chief Minister.
The entire speech was with regard to the personal life of the former Chief Minister and not with the reference to the discharge of any public function. As per Section 199 (2) CrPC, the public prosecutor can file a complaint for defamation only if it was in connection with the discharge of duties of a public servant in connection with the affairs of the State. The complaint was filed out of political vendetta, they said.
Justice G. Ilangovan observed that the text of the speeches showed that it was not in good taste. The speeches were made in connection with the private life of, and not in connection with the discharge of duties in the capacity of Chief Minister.
Relying on Supreme Court and Madras High Court judgements, the judge observed that if at all a private complaint was to be filed, it ought to have been filed only by the affected party - the former Chief Minister. The office of the Public Prosecutor cannot be engaged for this purpose, the judge said and quashed the trial court proceedings against the DMK members.
Published - April 12, 2021 08:51 pm IST
Copyright© 2025, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions  |  Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines   for posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.