Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.
Advertisement
Search author on:
PubMed
 Google Scholar
Brain areas that help to monitor the envelope of space close to a person are involved in firing up immune cells when infection threatens. Credit: Zephyr/SPL
The brain activates front-line immune cells in response to the mere sight of a sick person, mimicking the body’s response to an actual infection, a study shows1.
The results required the use of brain scans and blood tests, as well as less conventional technology: gaming kit. Study volunteers donned virtual reality (VR) headsets to view human avatars with rashes, coughs or other symptoms of illness — avoiding the need to expose volunteers to pathogens.
The results illustrate the power of the brain “to predict what is going on [and] to select the proper response”, says study co-author Andrea Serino, a neuroscientist at the University Hospital of Lausanne, Switzerland.
The study was published on 28 July in Nature Neuroscience.
The immune system reacts promptly to infections, but it can’t always move fast enough to prevent serious illness. That means it would be useful for the body to realize that an infection is possible and mount a pre-emptive response.
To study humans’ ability to anticipate a pathogen attack, Serino and his colleagues outfitted healthy volunteers with Google’s Oculus Rift headsets and showed them avatars that approached closer and closer, although the avatars never ‘touched’ the participants. Some avatars showed signs of having an infectious illness; others were controls that looked healthy.
How the brain spies on the gut: with help from newfound immune cells
How the brain spies on the gut: with help from newfound immune cells
Another group of volunteers did not see the avatars but received an influenza vaccination, representing exposure to an actual pathogen.
or
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02363-7
Trabanelli, S. et al. Nature Neurosci. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41593-025-02008-y (2025).
Article 
    
                    Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Your brain could be controlling how sick you get — and how you recover
Found: the dial in the brain that controls the immune system
How the brain senses a flu infection — and orders the body to rest
Your nose has its own army of immune cells — here’s how it protects you
mRNA vaccines for HIV trigger strong immune response in people
News 01 AUG 25
How allergens make us cough and wheeze — by poking holes in airway cells
News 31 JUL 25
Epithelial cell membrane perforation induces allergic airway inflammation
Article 30 JUL 25
A hypothalamic circuit that modulates feeding and parenting behaviours
Article 30 JUL 25
Remodelling of corticostriatal axonal boutons during motor learning
Article 30 JUL 25
AI models are neglecting African languages — scientists want to change that
News 29 JUL 25
mRNA vaccines for HIV trigger strong immune response in people
News 01 AUG 25
Help save 2 million lives: close the vaccine funding gap
Editorial 22 JUL 25
Identification of medication–microbiome interactions that affect gut infection
Article 16 JUL 25
Postdoc opportunity to engage in both foundational machine learning research and high-impact interdisciplinary applications in the life sciences.
Vienna, Austria
AITHYRA GmbH - Research Institute for Biomedical Artificial Intelligence of the Austrian Academy of Sciences
Shenzhen, Guangdong (CN)
Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation
Shenzhen, Guangdong (CN)
Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation
The Carol and Gene Ludwig Program for the Study of Neuroimmune Interactions in Dementia at Yale School of Medicine seeks new tenure-track faculty.
New Haven, Connecticut
Yale School of Medicine - Ludwig Program for the Study of Neuroimmune Interaction in Dementia
6 major schools are now hiring faculty members.
Shanghai, China
ShanghaiTech University
Your brain could be controlling how sick you get — and how you recover
Found: the dial in the brain that controls the immune system
How the brain senses a flu infection — and orders the body to rest
Your nose has its own army of immune cells — here’s how it protects you
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Nature
                    
                    (Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited