Save up to 74%
Subscribe to Kiplinger
The $15,000 visa bond pilot program goes into effect later this month. Here's what we know so far.
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
Today, the State Department announced a new visa bond pilot program that will take effect on August 20. On that date, visitors from certain countries may need to pay a bond of $5,000 to $15,000 to enter the country as a tourist.
Like the $250 visa integrity fee introduced with the passage of the "One Big, Beautiful Bill," it's essentially a refundable security deposit. Visitors will get the money refunded if they don't breach the terms of the bond.
The State Department attempted a similar move during Trump's first term in office, implementing a six-month visa bond pilot program in 2020. But, pandemic-related travel restrictions forced the agency to put the program on hold.
Be a smarter, better informed investor.
Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and more - straight to your e-mail.
Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice - straight to your e-mail.
While its impact so far seems narrow in scope, the notice leaves room to expand its reach to more countries as the program continues. Here's everything we know about the $15,000 visa bond so far.
According to the notification published by the State Department, the visa bond pilot program will apply to visitors with a B-1 or B-2 visa. These are essentially temporary tourist visas for people coming here for short-term vacations or business trips.
The department says it will impose the bond requirement on countries that have a high visa overstay rate. According to a 2023 report from the Congressional Research Service, fewer than 2% of nonimmigrant visa holders overstay their visa each year, which amounts to 720,000 overstays per year on average. The majority of those do first enter the country on a B-1 or B-2 visa.
It may also target countries that offer golden visas, or "citizenship by investment" along with a handful of other countries deemed high risk by the state department.
As part of the visa application process, consular officers can require a bond of no less than $5,000 and up to $15,000 from visitors who are coming from the target countries. The bond is meant to act as a kind of security deposit. As long as visa holders leave the country on or before the departure date, they'll get their money back. In reality, it's a little more complicated than that, as you'll see later in this article.
The pilot program will run for 12 months, expiring on August 6, 2026.
Faye Insurance offers travel insurance with 100% digital claims and real-time support.Explore plans at withfaye.com.
Right now, only two countries are on the list: Malawi and Zambia. But the notice from the State Department stated that more could be added throughout the pilot program. If any are added, they will be announced at least 15 days before the bond requirements go into effect for those countries.
Because of the limited scope of the visa bond pilot program, the State Department estimates that only about 2,000 visitors will be expected to post the bond. But this is just a trial run to see if this kind of policy is logistically feasible.
On the surface, the process to get your bond returned seems straightforward. Visitors who leave on or before their authorized departure date (or who get a visa but end up not traveling at all) can have the bond payment returned to them.
In reality, it's a little more complicated than that. Visa holders must arrive and depart from one of the required ports of entry listed on the State Department website. Right now, that list includes just three airports: Boston, JFK and Washington Dulles.
So, tourists who want to visit, say, California or Florida, would need to make sure their flight itinerary has them entering and leaving the country through one of those northeastern airports.
An easy-to-overlook detail of this new pilot program is the third condition that counts as a breach of the visa bond. Visitors who travel here on a valid nonimmigrant visa and then apply for an immigrant visa will be considered in breach of the bond and won't get their refund. The State Department specifies that this includes applying for asylum.
At the same time, U.S. law requires asylum seekers to be physically present in the country in order to claim asylum here. The only legal way to do that, then, is to enter the country on a nonimmigrant visa.
The timing of this new pilot program is notable. It comes just one month after a federal judge struck down Trump's proclamation blocking asylum seekers coming to the country through the U.S. border with Mexico.
While this program doesn't actually ban asylum seekers, it does effectively mean that refugees coming from countries on the list will have to treat the up to $15,000 bond as an application fee – as they have no choice but to enter the country in order to claim asylum and, in claiming asylum, they are in breach of the visa bond.
For now, the visa bond pilot program applies to just a few travelers from select countries. But depending on how it unfolds, the State Department may expand it to include more countries — potentially affecting thousands more visitors in the future.
Travelers should check the U.S. State Department’s website for the most up-to-date list of countries affected by the visa bond requirement.
Profit and prosper with the best of Kiplinger's advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and much more. Delivered daily. Enter your email in the box and click Sign Me Up.
Rachael Green is a personal finance eCommerce writer specializing in insurance, travel, and credit cards. Before joining Kiplinger in 2025, she wrote blogs and whitepapers for financial advisors and reported on everything from the latest business news and investing trends to the best shopping deals. Her bylines have appeared in Benzinga, CBS News, Travel + Leisure, Bustle, and numerous other publications. A former digital nomad, Rachael lived in Lund, Vienna, and New York before settling down in Atlanta. She’s eager to share her tips for finding the best travel deals and navigating the logistics of managing money while living abroad. When she’s not researching the latest insurance trends or sharing the best credit card reward hacks, Rachael can be found traveling or working in her garden.
Most medications come from Europe. Does that mean the new tariffs on the EU will drive drug prices higher?
Markets were mostly mixed Tuesday after decisive moves Friday and Monday.
Most medications come from Europe. Does that mean the new tariffs on the EU will drive drug prices higher?
The financial documents piling up at home put you at risk of fraud. Learn the eight types of financial documents you should always shred to protect yourself.
If you co-sign or guarantee a lease for your kids, make sure you understand the risks.
Rampant bankruptcies in the solar panel industry have left many consumers with systems that don't work and no way to get them fixed. Worse, they're being hounded to keep paying despite not receiving what they were promised. What can they do?
National banks offer a wide variety of accounts and services, including wealth and investment management. Here's Kiplinger's pick of the best.
National banks offer a wide variety of accounts and services, including wealth and investment management. Here's Kiplinger's pick of the best.
If you travel frequently, you may be drawn to these accounts for features such as fee-free ATM access and waived currency-conversion charges. And even if you’re not a jet-setter, you may find these options enticing.
Credit unions are nonprofit institutions that are owned by their members. Many of them keep fees down and offer respectable interest rates on at least some of their accounts.
Kiplinger is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.