Polygon (POL) rose 9% in early U.S. morning trading hours from $0.206 to $0.225 before selling emerged in the afternoon, CoinDesk Analytics data shows.
The token saw significant volatility overnight as volume surges to 708,489 and 804,401 units, crushing the 24-hour average of 410,606, before heavy selling pressure emerged, establishing critical resistance for near-term action.
POL is currently trading at $0.221, up about 3% over the past 24 hours. It is outperforming the broader market as tracked by the CoinDesk 20 Index, which is down about 2.4% over the same period.
The token is down more than 90% from its all-time high of $2.92 in December 2021 even as other cryptos such as bitcoin BTC$113,542.51 and XRP have surged to new highs recently.
Polygon is currently focusing on scaling AggLayer, an application that helps users connect to other blockchains, in addition to advancing payments and real-world assets tools, its CEO and co-founder Sandeep Nailwal, told Bloomberg in an interview recently.
Nailwal was appointed CEO of the foundation in June with the goal to strengthen its strategy in order to compete with other projects.
“AI Boost” indicates a generative text tool, typically an AI chatbot, contributed to the article. In each and every case, the article was edited, fact-checked and published by a human. Read more about CoinDesk's AI Policy.
Helene is a New York-based markets reporter at CoinDesk, covering the latest news from Wall Street, the rise of the spot bitcoin exchange-traded funds and updates on crypto markets. She is a graduate of New York University's business and economic reporting program and has appeared on CBS News, YahooFinance and Nasdaq TradeTalks. She holds BTC and ETH.
More For You
Asia Morning Briefing: Architect Bets Credit Will Outshine Crypto Equities as It Builds a Web3 Moody’s
As crypto equity markets become overcrowded and illiquid, Architect bets on building a Moody's-like credit rating system to unlock new pools of institutional capital.
What to know:
About
Contact