The festival was renamed this year in honour of Trey Helton, the initial festival organizer who died earlier this year.
You can save this article by registering for free here. Or sign-in if you have an account.
Almost 70 graffiti and other artists from B.C. and abroad came together over the B.C. Day long weekend to cover an entire block of a Downtown Eastside alley in murals and enormous, full-colour pieces.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.
It was the result of Never Grow Up 2025, an annual graffiti arts festival that started in 2023.
Organizers estimated more than 3,000 people passed through the alley — north of Hastings Street, between Abbott and Cambie streets — over the course of the festival, from dedicated graffiti fans to curious locals and tourists.
“A lot of people just see (graffiti) as a nuisance, and then they come here, and they can really see how it’s a beautiful art form, really an amazing way to express yourself,” said Maeve Simpson, one of the festival’s organizers. “It’s just eye opening for a lot of people.”
Get top headlines and gossip from the world of celebrity and entertainment.
By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc.
A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder.
The next issue of Sun Spots will soon be in your inbox.
We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Interested in more newsletters? Browse here.
For Kyle Simpson, Maeve’s partner and festival co-organizer, the event brought new life to the neighbourhood.
“It’s actually kind of transformed (the alley) from a space that used to be in decline itself,” he said, noting that before the festival, the alley wasn’t a place most people would feel comfortable walking through.
Originally called Clean Lines, the festival was renamed this year in honour of its founder, graffiti artist and Overdose Prevention Society manager, Trey “Grow Up” Helten, who died earlier this year.
Helton was deeply involved in the Downtown Eastside, Simpson said, and helped to organize the city’s first legal graffiti art wall at 133 W. Pender St.
@njgriffiths
ngriffiths@postmedia.com
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2025 Vancouver Sun, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
You can manage saved articles in your account.
and save up to 100 articles!
You can manage your saved articles in your account and clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.