ByLiz Ryan
ByLiz Ryan,
Former Contributor.
Before you decide "I need to meet a headhunter who'll find me a new job" you need to understand how the third-party search business works.
Employers pay third-party recruiters, sometimes called search consultants or headhunters, when they don't think they can fill a job opening on their own. Sometimes they try to fill the position on their own and they can't find anyone they want to hire, so they get their search partners involved.
It is important to remember that recruiters work for their clients, the way all consultants do. They don't work for the job candidates they collaborate with, although job candidates are naturally a critical piece of the puzzle for search consultants.
Still, the employer pays the bills. This is why job-seekers are often disappointed when recruiters they meet aren't always thrilled to give the job-seekers tons of free career coaching. It's not that recruiters are stingy with their advice, or uncaring.
It's just that there are lots of job-seekers to help, and recruiters don't get paid when they aren't placing people into new jobs. Some recruiters are difficult, of course. Some of them are terse and some are mean. It's that way in any profession.
I'm an HR person. Do you think I'm going to sit here and try to tell you that every HR person is a warm, compassionate and wise evangelist for employees? Attorneys get slammed as rapacious sharks, used-car salespeople get tagged as hucksters. Every field and career path has great people in it, and other people who struggle to show their human qualities. It will always be that way.
Still, people judge recruiters unfairly, because to make it as a recruiter you have to have a lot more than a phone number and a stream of jive. You have to understand what a client is telling you they need when they can't articulate it themselves.
You have to deal with client needs that can change dramatically overnight -- even in the middle of a search! -- and candidates who flake out, who tell you they're excited about the job and then don't show up for the interview, or who tell you at the last minute before the job offer comes "I think I might start my own business, instead."
There are two ways to be a third-party recruiter. You can work by yourself or in a firm with other people doing contingency search. If you're a contingency recruiter, you don't get paid unless your candidate accepts the job offer. You get a commission when that happens, equivalent to about 25% of the new hire's first year cash compensation.
What does it  mean to only get paid when your candidate takes the offer? It means you may be competing with a bunch of other recruiters who also have candidates applying for the same job.
It means staying on top of the hiring manager without irritating the manager so badly that s/he stops returning your calls -- even if you were promised feedback on a candidate by last Friday afternoon, and it's now four days later.
There is a lot of finesse in recruiting.
The other way to recruit is to work for a retained search firm, or become a retained search consultant and work solo. Retained search people are hired by the employer to fill certain positions, often high-level jobs that pay upwards of USD $10oK per year in salary.
When you're hired to conduct a retained search, you're hired -- you're not competing with any other recruiters or search firms at that point. You still have to hustle to bring in candidates the employer will love.
When one of those candidates is hired, the search assignment is completed. When we occasionally conduct searches for our clients at Human Workplace, this is the kind of recruiting we do.
When you get a call at work or at home from a recruiter about a job opportunity, your excitement may impel you to say "Sure! I'll send my resume right now! Where should I send it?" That's not a good idea. The recruiter could be anybody. S/he could work for a top-notch firm or be a highly credible independent recruiter, or s/he could be a slimetastic wannabe who misuses your resume and damages your brand.
Let's say the headhunter who calls you is in the latter category. Let's call our fictional recruiter Lola. Lola calls you at your desk one day when you're working. She says, "Wow! I'm glad I got you. I have a fantastic opportunity at Angry Chocolates, and you're perfect for it!" You get all excited. You fire off a resume to Lola, and the next thing you know, Lola sends the resume to the HR VP at Angry Chocolates and says "You should interview my candidate, who is perfect for your position!"
The only problem is that Lola started her search business last week when she got sick of her job as the front-desk receptionist at a nail salon across town. God bless Lola's pluck -- a pain-in-the-neck mani/pedi customer demanded that Lola go outside in the freezing rain and hail the customer a cab, to save the customer from having it to it herself. Lola told the customer where to go in her cab when she found one, and walked off the job.
Lola decided to become a search consultant because the barriers to entry in that field are nonexistent. Anybody can become a recruiter, which is one of the things that artificially tarnishes the third-party recruiting community's brand through no fault of their own.
Lola already had a phone. She uses her gmail account to recruit from, and she's in business. Geez! thinks Lola. That was easy. Now I need to get a search assignment, but wait! I have no experience and no credibility as a headhunter.
I know! I'll find some job ads, and send the HR people behind those jobs ads really good candidate resumes. Where will I get the resumes? I'll call unsuspecting working people at their desks and tell them I already have the search assignment -- yeah! That's the ticket. Then I'll get great resumes, send them to the client and maybe I'll actually get the search assignment for real.
No one knows who Lola is. She's never headhunted before, or networked, but her nails look amazing. She starts calling candidates. Not one of the eager candidates asks Lola "How long have you been in search?" or "How many people did you place into Angry Chocolates last year?" They should have asked those questions!
Now Lola has ten resumes and she's lobbing new resumes into Angry Chocolates all the time. The HR VP gets annoyed at all the unsolicited email she's getting from Lola. "Some of these resumes look okay," says the HR VP to the manager of the hiring department, "but who is this Lola? She has no track record, I've never heard of her and I can't even find a 
LinkedIn
 profile."
"Too bad for those candidates," says the hiring manager. The candidates never had a clue that their association with Lola was tanking their chances at an interview. If a legit recruiter calls them a week later, gets their resume and sends it into Angry Chocolates, the second recruiter may be told "We can't interview that candidate, qualified as s/he seems to be. We already received that resume last week from Lola Somebody-or-Other."
The second recruiter may be able to place you into the job and get paid a commission if the employer is willing to go out on a limb with Lola and say "We are not going to pay your commission because we had no relationship with you, and no agreement in place, when you sent us that resume before."
That being said, a lot of employers wouldn't take that chance. They'd pass on you because they'd be squeamish about getting in the middle of a two-recruiter time-stamp dispute.
Don't give your resume to strangers, no matter who they say they know! Ask a lot of questions. Anybody who tells you "I have to have your resume tonight!" is full of baloney. Remember the old workstation-poster, usually photocopied at a crooked angle on the page, passed around from hand to hand?
It said "A lack of planning on your part does not constitute an emergency on my part." A recruiter in your corner is a blessing and a huge career asset, if your search partner is credible and wise. Lots of recruiters are. Accept no substitutes!