Tourists and locals have been evacuated from beach resorts in southern Spain following a dramatic forest fire.
The latest wildfire in the nation, following an out-of-control blaze in Madrid last month, has seen flames spread in the hills of Torre de la Peña, threatening campsites near the hugely popular resort of Tarifa in Cadiz in Andalusia. Aircraft has been scrambled in the desperate rescue operation, and to extinguish the flames.
But strong gusts are aiding the fire's spread and photographs show thick black smoke billow above deserted beaches. Roads, including the N-340 highway, are closed and all bars, restaurants and hotels have been evacuated in the approximate two miles between La Peña and Casas de Porros, reports local newspaper Europa Sur.
Are you in Cadiz? Contact webnews@mirror.co.uk
For updates on the Spain wildfires, follow our live blog below...
Authorities continue to make plans to help protect communities across Cadiz.
Andalucia firefighter service INFOCA has held a coordination meeting, and are working on securing the perimeter in the Peña area, a region with tourist facilities and accommodations.
#IFTarifa [ACTIVO] | En el #PMA, el consejero de @InteriorJunta, @antoniosanz, participa en la última reunión de coordinación, celebrada a las 03.00 h. Trabajamos en consolidar el perímetro en la zona de la Peña, área con presencia de instalaciones turísticas y de alojamiento. pic.twitter.com/9iRtFitxLm
Operations at the nearest airport - Gibraltar - are unaffected by the fires.
Arrivals are scheduled from the likes of Manchester, Heathrow and Gatwick on time today.
Flights leaving Gibraltar for those airports are scheduled to depart on time too.
The Algeciras City Council, through Mayor José Ignacio Landaluce, has already contacted the mayor of Tarifa, José Antonio Santos , also a member of the People's Party (PP ), to provide him with all the necessary resources to assist with the emergency response.
The Algeciras resident, aware that many of the city's residents are traveling to the municipality affected by the fire, has urged caution and the avoidance of travel, reminding everyone that the road connecting the two towns is closed to traffic in both directions.
At the moment, there are no personal injuries reported, but Infoca's work remains complex. They are currently focused on protecting Valdevaqueros and the houses located on the left side of the road, which will likely also be evacuated.
Eight aircraft, seven firefighter crews, five operations technicians, and four reinforcement officers, accompanied by two fire engines, are already operating in the affected area.
Warning messages are also being sent to residents and tourists on nearby beaches, which are as crowded as usual at this time of year in Tarifa. Around 18,000 people live in the town.
Footage of flames on the hillside has been shared on X, which was known as Twitter.
The post reads: "The #Tarifa fire seen from Tangier... Strength to the firefighters, civil protection, and police."
El #incendio de Tarifa visto desde Tanger Ánimo a los Bomberos, Protección civil y Policía pic.twitter.com/XrX4mkutPm
Blazes have already erupted in Portugal, Greece, and Spain in recent days - and tornadoes have struck tourist hotspots in parts of Spain and Switzerland.
Wildfires have raged in northern Portugal and central Spain, the largest wave of blazes in the Iberian Peninsula so far this year following weeks of summer heat.
The largest wildfire burned in the wooded, mountainous Arouca area - some 300 km (185 miles) north of Lisbon.
Some 400 miles away in Madrid, an out-of-control wildfire sent a massive plume of smoke into the air last month.
About 50 residents had to be evacuated as the fires ripped through the countryside. Madrid Security and Emergency Agency described the blazes as of "maximum concern" as extreme levels of forest fires are reported throughout the region, and 40mph winds threaten to push them further and faster.
The blaze began in the town of Méntrida, located in the Castile-La Mancha region about 50 kilometers (30 miles) southwest of Madrid. Local authorities advised residents to remain indoors and keep their windows closed due to poor air quality.
Several beach bars - known as chiringuitos - have also been evacuated due to the large amounts of ash being carried down to the shore.
The blaze was first reported at around 4pm on Tuesday. The current firefighting operation involves five helicopters, two water-carrying planes, a coordination plane, five forest fire ground crews and more.
Tarifa is often branded a "surfer's paradise" due to its extremely wide beaches and tall waves.
The fire is snaking very close to the N-340 highway and the Estrecho Natural Park - the former of which has been partially closed between Las Piñas and Pedro Valiente.
According to the local police, the fire started in a motorhome at the Torre la Peña campsite, which also had to be evacuated.
The flames then blew westward, away from the campsite, and spread rapidly through a hilly and grassland area where homes and tourist establishments are scattered - including the Wawa Hotel, which is reported to have been affected by the fire.
The wildfire has forced tourists and locals to evacuate between La Peña and Casas de Porros in Cadiz.
Flames have soared from the Torre de la Peña hills - home to campsites - and are said to be spreading quickly. Several caravans at the campsites are said to have been burned.
Tourism is hugely important in the area and early August is a busy time as it is the summer holidays across Europe, including for Brits many of whom flock to southern Spain for their getaways.
Get email updates with the day's biggest stories